CHAPTER ONE
Dudley Demented
The hottest day of the summer so far was drawing to a close and a drowsy silence lay over the large, square houses of Privet Drive. Cars that were usually gleaming stood dusty in their drives
and lawns that were once emerald green lay parched and yellowing; the use of hosepipes had
een anned due to drought. Deprived of their usual car-washing and lawn-mowing pursuits, the
inhaitants of Privet Drive had retreated into the shade of their cool houses, windows thrown
wide in the hope of tempting in a nonexistent reeze. The only person left outdoors was a
teenage oy who was lying flat on his ack in a flowered outside numer four.
He was a skinny, lack-haired, espectacled oy who had the pinched, slightly unhealthy look of
someone who has grown a lot in a short space of time. His jeans were torn and dirty, his T-shirt
aggy and faded, and the soles of his trainers were peeling away from the uppers. Harry Potter’s
appearance did not endear him to the neighors, who were the sort of people who thought
scruffiness ought to e punishale y law, ut as he had hidden himself ehind a large hydrangea
ush this evening he was quite invisile to passers-y. In fact, the only way he would e spotted
was if his Uncle Vernon or Aunt Petunia stuck their heads out of the living-room window and
looked straight down into the flowered elow.
On the whole, Harry thought he was to e congratulated on his idea of hiding here. He was not,
perhaps, very comfortale lying on the hot, hard earth ut, on the other hand, noody was glaring
at him, grinding their teeth so loudly that he could not hear the news, or shooting nasty questions
at him, as had happened every time he had tried sitting down in the living room to watch
television with his aunt and uncle.
Almost as though this thought had fluttered through the open window, Vernon Dursley, Harry’s
uncle, suddenly spoke.
"Glad to see the oy’s stopped trying to utt in. Where is he, anyway?"
"I don’t know," said Aunt Petunia, unconcerned. "Not in the house."
Uncle Vernon grunted.
"Watching the news..." he said scathingly. "I’d like to know what he’s really up to. As if a
normal oy cares what’s on the news - Dudley hasn’t got a clue what’s going on; dout he knows
who the Prime Minister is! Anyway, it’s not as if there’d e anything aout his lot on our news-"
"Vernon, shh!" said Aunt Petunia. "The window’s open!"
"Oh - yes - sorry, dear."
The Dursleys fell silent. Harry listened to a jingle aout Fruit ‘n’ Bran reakfast cereal while he
watched Mrs. Figg, a atty cat-loving old lady from neary Wisteria Walk, amle slowly past.
She was frowning and muttering to herself. Harry was very pleased he was concealed ehind the
ush, as Mrs. Figg had recently taken to asking him around for tea whenever she met him in the
street. She had rounded the corner and vanished from view efore Uncle Vernon’s voice floated
out of the window again.
"Dudders out for tea?"
"At the Polkisses’," said Aunt Petunia fondly. "He’s got so many little friends, he’s so popular."
Harry suppressed a snort with difficulty. The Dursleys really were astonishingly stupid aout
their son, Dudley. They had swallowed all his dim-witted lies aout having tea with a different
memer of his gang every night of the summer holidays. Harry knew perfectly well that Dudley
had not een to tea anywhere; he and his gang spent every evening vandalizing the play park,
smoking on street corners and throwing stones at passing cars and children. Harry had seen them
at it during his evening walks around Little Whinging; he had spent most of the holidays
wandering the streets, scavenging newspapers from ins along the way.
The opening notes of the music that heralded the seven o’clock news reached Harry’s ears and
his stomach turned over. Perhaps tonight - after a month of waiting - would e the night.
"Record numers of stranded holiday makers fill air ports as the Spanish aggage-handlers’ strike reaches its second week -"
"Give ‘em a lifelong siesta, I would," snarled Uncle Vernon over the end of the newsreader’s
sentence, ut no matter: outside in the flowered, Harry’s stomach seemed to unclench. If
anything had happened, it would surely have een the first item on the news; death and
destruction were more important than stranded holidaymakers.
He let out a long, slow reath and stared up at the rilliant lue sky. Every day this summer had
een the same: the tension, the expectation, the temporary relief, and then mounting tension
again... and always, growing more insistent all the time, the question of why nothing had
happened yet.
He kept listening, just in case there was some small clue, not recognized for what it really was y
the Muggles - an unexplained disappearance, perhaps, or some strange accident... ut the
aggage-handlers’ strike was followed y news aout the drought in the Southeast ("I hope he’s
listening next door!" ellowed Uncle Vernon. "Him with his sprinklers on at three in the
morning!"), then a helicopter that had almost crashed in a field in Surrey, then a famous actress’s
divorce from her famous husand ("As if we’re interested in their sordid affairs," sniffed Aunt
Petunia, who had followed the case osessively in every magazine she could lay her ony hands
on).
Harry closed his eyes against the now lazing evening sky as the newsreader said, "-and finally,
Bungy the udgie has found a novel way of keeping cool this summer. Bungy, who lives at the
Five Feathers in Barnsley, has learned to water ski! Mary Dorkins went to find out more."
Harry opened his eyes. If they had reached water-skiing udgerigars, there would e nothing else
worth hearing. He rolled cautiously on to his front and raised himself on to his knees and elows,
preparing to crawl out from under the window.
He had moved aout two inches when several things happened in very quick succession.
A loud, echoing crack roke the sleepy silence like a gunshot; a cat streaked out from under a
parked car and flew out of sight; a shriek, a ellowed oath and the sound of reaking china came
from the Dursleys’ living room, and as though this was the signal Harry had een waiting for he
jumped to his feet, at the same time pulling from the waistand of his jeans a thin wooden wand
as if he were unsheathing a sword - ut efore he could draw himself up to full height, the top of
his head collided with the Dursleys’ open window. The resultant crash made Aunt Petunia
scream even louder.
Harry felt as though his head had een split in two. Eyes streaming, he swayed, trying to focus
on the street to spot the source of the noise, ut he had arely staggered upright when two large
purple hands reached through the open window and closed tightly around his throat.
"Put - it-away!" Uncle Vernon snarled into Harry’s ear. "Now! Before- anyone - sees!"
"Get - off - me!" Harry gasped. For a few seconds they struggled, Harry pulling at his uncles
sausage-like fingers with his left hand, his right maintaining a firm grip on his raised wand; then,
as the pain in the top of Harry’s head gave a particularly nasty thro, Uncle Vernon yelped and
released Harry as though he had received an electric shock. Some invisile force seemed to have
surged through his nephew, making him impossile to hold.
Panting, Harry fell forwards over the hydrangea ush, straightened up and stared around. There
was no sign of what had caused the loud cracking noise, ut there were several faces peering
through various neary windows. Harry stuffed his wand hastily ack into his jeans and tried to
look innocent.
"Lovely evening!" shouted Uncle Vernon, waving at Mrs. Numer Seven, who was glaring from ehind her net curtains. "Did you hear that car ackfire just now? Gave Petunia and me quite a turn!"
He continued to grin in a horrile, manic way until all the curious neighors had disappeared
from their various windows, then the grin ecame a grimace of rage as he eckoned Harry ack
towards him.
Harry moved a few steps closer, taking care to stop just short of the point at which Uncle
Vernon’s outstretched hands could resume their strangling.
"What the devil do you mean y it, oy?" asked Uncle Vernon in a croaky voice that tremled
with fury.
"What do I mean y what?" said Harry coldly. He kept looking left and right up the street, still
hoping to see the person who had made the cracking noise.
"Making a racket like a starting pistol right outside our -"
"I didn’t make that noise," said Harry firmly.
Aunt Petunia’s thin, horsy face now appeared eside Uncle Vernon’s wide, purple one. She
looked livid.
"Why were you lurking under our window?"
"Yes - yes, good point, Petunia! What were you doing under our window, oy?"
"Listening to the news," said Harry in a resigned voice.
His aunt and uncle exchanged looks of outrage.
"Listening to the news! Again?"
"Well, it changes every day, you see," said Harry.
"Don’t you e clever with me, oy! I want to know what you’re really up to - and don’t give me
any more of this listening to the news tosh! You know perfectly well that your lot -"
"Careful, Vernon!" reathed Aunt Petunia, and Uncle Vernon lowered his voice so that Harry
could arely hear him, "-that your lot don’t get on our news!"
"That’s all you know," said Harry.
The Dursleys goggled at him for a few seconds, then Aunt Petunia said, "You’re a nasty little
liar. What are all those -" she, too, lowered her voice so that Harry had to lip-read the next word,
"- owls doing if they’re not ringing you news?"
"Aha!" said Uncle Vernon in a triumphant whisper. "Get out of that one, oy! As if we didn’t
know you get all your news from those pestilential irds!"
Harry hesitated for a moment. It cost him something to tell the truth this time, even though his
aunt and uncle could not possily know how ad he felt at admitting it.
"The owls... aren’t ringing me news," he said tonelessly.
"I don’t elieve it," said Aunt Petunia at once.
"No more do I," said Uncle Vernon forcefully.
"We know you’re up to something funny," said Aunt Petunia.
"We’re not stupid, you know," said Uncle Vernon.
"Well, that’s news to me," said Harry, his temper rising, and efore the Dursleys could call him
ack, he had wheeled aout, crossed the front lawn, stepped over the low garden wall and was
striding off up the street.
He was in troule now and he knew it. He would have to face his aunt and uncle later and pay
the price for his rudeness, ut he did not care very much just at the moment; he had much more
pressing matters on his mind.
Harry was sure the cracking noise had een made y someone Apparating or Disapparating. It
was exactly the sound Doy the house-elf made when he vanished into thin air. Was it possile
that Doy was here in Privet Drive? Could Doy e following him right at this very moment?
As this thought occurred he wheeled around and stared ack down Privet Drive, ut it appeared
to e completely deserted and Harry was sure that Doy did not know how to ecome invisile.
He walked on, hardly aware of the route he was taking, for he had pounded these streets so often
lately that his feet carried him to his favorite haunts automatically. Every few steps he glanced
ack over his shoulder. Someone magical had een near him as he lay among Aunt Petunia’s
dying egonias, he was sure of it. Why hadn’t they spoken to him, why hadn’t they made
contact, why were they hiding now?
And then, as his feeling of frustration peaked, his certainty leaked away.
Perhaps it hadn’t een a magical sound after all. Perhaps he was so desperate for the tiniest sign
of contact from the world to which he elonged that he was simply overreacting to perfectly
ordinary noises. Could he e sure it hadn’t een the sound of something reaking inside a
neighor’s house?
Harry felt a dull, sinking sensation in his stomach and efore he knew it the feeling of
hopelessness that had plagued him all summer rolled over him once again.
Tomorrow morning he would e woken y the alarm at five o’clock so he could pay the owl that
delivered the Daily Prophet - ut was there any point continuing to take it? Harry merely glanced at the front page efore throwing it aside these days; when the idiots who ran the paper finally realized that Voldemort was ack it would e headline news, and that was the only kind Harry cared aout.
If he was lucky, there would also e owls carrying letters from his est friends Ron and
Hermione, though any expectation he’d had that their letters would ring him news had long
since een dashed.
We can’t say much aout you-know-what, oviously... We’ve een told not to say anything
important in case our letters go astray... We’re quite usy ut I can’t give you details here...
There’s a fair amount going on, we’ll tell you everything when we see you...
But when were they going to see him? Noody seemed too othered with a precise date.
Hermione had scriled I expect we’ll e seeing you quite soon inside his irthday card, ut how
soon was soon? As far as Harry could tell from the vague hints in their letters, Hermione and
Ron were in the same place, presumaly at Ron’s parents’ house. He could hardly ear to think
of the pair of them having fun at The Burrow when he was stuck in Privet Drive. In fact, he was
so angry with them he had thrown away, unopened, the two oxes of Honeydukes chocolates
they’d sent him for his irthday. He’d regretted it later, after the wilted salad Aunt Petunia had
provided for dinner that night.
And what were Ron and Hermione usy with? Why wasn’t he, Harry, usy? Hadn’t he proved
himself capale of handling much more than them? Had they all forgotten what he had done?
Hadn’t it een he who had entered that graveyard and watched Cedric eing murdered, and een
tied to that tomstone and nearly killed?
Don’t think aout that, Harry told himself sternly for the hundredth time that summer. It was ad
enough that he kept revisiting the graveyard in his nightmares, without dwelling on it in his
waking moments too.
He turned a corner into Magnolia Crescent; halfway along he passed the narrow alleyway down
the side of a garage where he had first clapped eyes on his godfather. Sirius, at least, seemed to
understand how Harry was feeling. Admittedly, his letters were just as empty of proper news as
Ron and Hermione’s, ut at least they contained words of caution and consolation instead of
tantalizing hints:
I know this must e frustrating for you... Keep your nose clean and everything will e okay... Be
careful and don’t do anything rash...
Well, thought Harry, as he crossed Magnolia Crescent, turned into Magnolia Road and headed
towards the darkening play park, he had (y and large) done as Sirius advised. He had at least
resisted the temptation to tie his trunk to his roomstick and set off for The Burrow y himself.
In fact, Harry thought his ehavior had een very good considering how frustrated and angry he
felt at eing stuck in Privet Drive so long, reduced to hiding in flowereds in the hope of hearing
something that might point to what Lord Voldemort was doing. Nevertheless, it was quite galling
to e told not to e rash y a man who had served twelve years in the wizard prison, Azkaan,
escaped, attempted to commit the murder he had een convicted for in the first place, then gone
on the run with a stolen Hippogriff.
Harry vaulted over the locked park gate and set off across the parched grass. The park was as
empty as the surrounding streets. When he reached the swings he sank on to the only one that
Dudley and his friends had not yet managed to reak, coiled one arm around the chain and stared
moodily at the ground. He would not e ale to hide in the Dursleys’ flowered again.
Tomorrow, he would have to think of some fresh way of listening to the news. In the meantime,
he had nothing to look forward to ut another restless, distured night, ecause even when he
escaped the nightmares aout Cedric he had unsettling dreams aout long dark corridors, all
finishing in dead ends and locked doors, which he supposed had something to do with the
trapped feeling he had when he was awake. Often the old scar on his forehead prickled
uncomfortaly, ut he did not fool himself that Ron or Hermione or Sirius would find that very
interesting any more. In the past, his scar hurting had warned that Voldemort was getting
stronger again, ut now that Voldemort was ack they would proaly remind him that its
regular irritation was only to e expected... nothing to worry aout... old news...
The injustice of it all welled up inside him so that he wanted to yell with fury. If it hadn’t een
for him, noody would even have known Voldemort was ack! And his reward was to e stuck
in Little Whinging for four solid weeks, completely cut off from the magical world, reduced to
squatting among dying egonias so that he could hear aout water-skiing udgerigars! How
could Dumledore have forgotten him so easily? Why had Ron and Hermione got together
without inviting him along, too? How much longer was he supposed to endure Sirius telling him
to sit tight and e a good oy; or resist the temptation to write to the stupid Daily Prophet and
point out that Voldemort had returned? These furious thoughts whirled around in Harry’s head,
and his insides writhed with anger as a sultry, velvety night fell around him, the air full of the
smell of warm, dry grass, and the only sound that of the low grumle of traffic on the road
eyond the park railings.
He did not know how long he had sat on the swing efore the sound of voices interrupted his
musings and he looked up. The streetlamps from the surrounding roads were casting a misty
glow strong enough to silhouette a group of people making their way across the park. One of
them was singing a loud, crude song. The others were laughing. A soft ticking noise came from
several expensive racing ikes that they were wheeling along.
Harry knew who those people were. The figure in front was unmistakealy his cousin, Dudley
Dursley, wending his way home, accompanied y his faithful gang.
Dudley was as vast as ever, ut a year’s hard dieting and the discovery of a new talent had
wrought quite a change in his physique. As Uncle Vernon delightedly told anyone who would
listen, Dudley had recently ecome the Junior Heavyweight Inter-School Boxing Champion of
the Southeast. ‘The nole sport’, as Uncle Vernon called it, had made Dudley even more
formidale than he had seemed to Harry in their primary school days when he had served as
Dudley’s first punching ag. Harry was not remotely afraid of his cousin any more ut he still didn’t think that Dudley learning to punch harder and more accurately was cause for celeration.
Neighorhood children all around were terrified of him - even more terrified than they were of
‘that Potter oy’ who, they had een warned, was a hardened hooligan and attended St. Brutus’s
Secure Center for Incuraly Criminal Boys.
Harry watched the dark figures crossing the grass and wondered who they had een eating up
tonight. Look round, Harry found himself thinking as he watched them. Come on... look
round... I’m sitting here all alone... come and have a go...
If Dudley’s friends saw him sitting here, they would e sure to make a eeline for him and what
would Dudley do then? He wouldn’t want to lose face in front of the gang, ut he’d e terrified
of provoking Harry... it would e really fun to watch Dudley’s dilemma, to taunt him, watch
him, with him powerless to respond... and if any of the others tried hitting Harry, he was ready -
he had his wand. Let them try... he’d love to vent some of his frustration on the oys who had
once made his life hell.
But they didn’t turn around, they didn’t see him, they were almost at the railings. Harry mastered
the impulse to call after them... seeking a fight was not a smart move... he must not use magic...
he would e risking expulsion again.
The voices of Dudley’s gang died away; they were out of sight, heading along Magnolia Road.
There you go, Sirius, Harry thought dully. Nothing rash. Kept my nose clean. Exactly the
opposite of what you’d have done.
He got to his feet and stretched. Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon seemed to feel that whenever
Dudley turned up was the right time to e home, and any time after that was much too late.
Uncle Vernon had threatened to lock Harry in the shed if he came home after Dudley ever again,
so, stifling a yawn, and still scowling, Harry set off towards the park gate.
Magnolia Road, like Privet Drive, was full of large, square houses with perfectly manicured
lawns, all owned y large, square owners who drove very clean cars similar to Uncle Vernon’s.
Harry preferred Little Whinging y night, when the curtained windows made patches of jewel right color in the darkness and he ran no danger of hearing disapproving mutters aout his ‘delinquent’ appearance when he passed the householders. He walked quickly, so that halfway along Magnolia Road Dudley’s gang came into view again; they were saying their farewells at the entrance to Magnolia Crescent. Harry stepped into the shadow of a large lilac tree and waited.
"... squealed like a pig, didn’t he?" Malcolm was saying, to guffaws from the others.
"Nice right hook, Big D," said Piers.
"Same time tomorrow?" said Dudley.
"Round at my place, my parents will e out," said Gordon.
"See you then," said Dudley.
"Bye, Dud!"
"See ya, Big D!"
Harry waited for the rest of the gang to move on efore setting off again. When their voices had
faded once more he headed around the corner into Magnolia Crescent and y walking very
quickly he soon came within hailing distance of Dudley, who was strolling along at his ease,
humming tunelessly.
"Hey, Big D!"
Dudley turned.
"Oh," he grunted. "It’s you."
"How long have you een ‘Big D’ then?" said Harry.
"Shut it," snarled Dudley, turning away.
"Cool name," said Harry, grinning and falling into step eside his cousin. "But you’ll always e
‘Ickle Diddykins’ to me."
"I said, SHUT IT!" said Dudley, whose ham-like hands had curled into fists.
"Don’t the oys know that’s what your mum calls you?"
"Shut your face."
"You don’t tell her to shut her face. What aout ‘Popkin’ and ‘Dinky Diddydums’, can I use
them then?"
Dudley said nothing. The effort of keeping himself from hitting Harry seemed to demand all his
self-control.
"So who’ve you een eating up tonight?" Harry asked, his grin fading. "Another ten-year-old? I
know you did Mark Evans two nights ago -"
"He was asking for it," snarled Dudley.
"Oh yeah?"
"He cheeked me."
"Yeah? Did he say you look like a pig that’s een taught to walk on its hind legs? Cause that’s
not cheek, Dud, that’s true."
A muscle was twitching in Dudley’s jaw. It gave Harry enormous satisfaction to know how
furious he was making Dudley; he felt as though he was siphoning off his own frustration into
his cousin, the only outlet he had.
They turned right down the narrow alleyway where Harry had first seen Sirius and which formed
a short cut etween Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk. It was empty and much darker than
the streets it linked ecause there were no streetlamps. Their footsteps were muffled etween
garage walls on one side and a high fence on the other.
"Think you’re a ig man carrying that thing, don’t you?" Dudley said after a few seconds.
"What thing?"
"That - that thing you are hiding."
Harry grinned again.
"Not as stupid as you look, are you, Dud? But I s’pose, if you were, you wouldn’t e ale to walk and talk at the same time."
Harry pulled out his wand. He saw Dudley look sideways at it.
"You’re not allowed," Dudley said at once. "I know you’re not. You’d get expelled from that
freak school you go to."
"How d’you know they haven’t changed the rules, Big D?"
"They haven’t," said Dudley, though he didn’t sound completely convinced.
Harry laughed softly.
"You haven’t got the guts to take me on without that thing, have you?" Dudley snarled.
"Whereas you just need four mates ehind you efore you can eat up a ten year old. You know
that oxing title you keep anging on aout? How old was your opponent? Seven? Eight?"
"He was sixteen, for your information," snarled Dudley, "and he was out cold for twenty minutes
after I’d finished with him and he was twice as heavy as you. You just wait till I tell Dad you had
that thing out -"
"Running to Daddy now, are you? Is his ickle oxing champ frightened of nasty Harry’s wand?"
"Not this rave at night, are you?" sneered Dudley.
"This is night, Diddykins. That’s what we call it when it goes all dark like this."
"I mean when you’re in ed!" Dudley snarled.
He had stopped walking. Harry stopped too, staring at his cousin.
From the little he could see of Dudley’s large face, he was wearing a strangely triumphant look.
"What d’you mean, I’m not rave when I’m in ed?" s aid Harry, completely nonplussed. "What
am I supposed to e frightened of, pillows or something?"
"I heard you last night," said Dudley reathlessly. "Talking in your sleep. Moaning."
"What d’you mean?" Harry said again, ut there was a cold, plunging sensation in his stomach.
He had revisited the graveyard last night in his dreams.
Dudley gave a harsh ark of laughter, then adopted a high-pitched whimpering voice.
"‘Don’t kill Cedric! Don’t kill Cedric!’ Who’s Cedric - your oyfriend?"
"I - you’re lying," said Harry automatically. But his mouth had gone dry. He knew Dudley wasn’t lying - how else would he know aout Cedric?
"Dad! Help me, Dad! He’s going to kill me, Dad! Boo hoo!"
"Shut up," said Harry quietly. "Shut up, Dudley, I’m warning you!"
"Come and help me, Dad! Mum, come and help me! He’s killed Cedric! Dad, help me! He’s
going to - don’t you point that thing at me!"
Dudley acked into the alley wall. Harry was pointing the wand directly at Dudley’s heart. Harry
could feel fourteen years’ hatred of Dudley pounding in his veins - what wouldn’t he give to
strike now, to jinx Dudley so thoroughly he’d have to crawl home like an insect, struck dum,
sprouting feelers...
"Don’t ever talk aout that again," Harry snarled. "D’you understand me?"
"Point that thing somewhere else!"
"I said, do you understand me?"
"Point it somewhere else!"
"DO YOU UNDERSTAND ME?"
"GET THAT THING AWAY FROM -"
Dudley gave an odd, shuddering gasp, as though he had een doused in icy water.
Something had happened to the night. The star-strewn indigo sky was suddenly pitch lack and
lightless - the stars, the moon, the misty streetlamps at either end of the alley had vanished. The
distant rumle of cars and the whisper of trees had gone. The almy evening was suddenly
piercingly, itingly cold. They were surrounded y total, impenetrale, silent darkness, as though
some giant hand had dropped a thick, icy mantle over the entire alleyway, linding them.
For a split second Harry thought he had done magic without meaning to, despite the fact that
he’d een resisting as hard as he could - then his reason caught up with his senses - he didn’t
have the power to turn off the stars. He turned his head this way and that, trying to see
something, ut the darkness pressed on his eyes like a weightless veil.
Dudley’s terrified voice roke in Harry’s ear.
"W-what are you d-doing? St-stop it!"
"I’m not doing anything! Shut up and don’t move!"
"I c-can’t see! I’ve g-gone lind! I -"
"I said shut up!"
Harry stood stock still, turning his sightless eyes left and right. The cold was so intense he was
shivering all over; goose umps had erupted up his arms and the hairs on the ack of his neck
were standing up - he opened his eyes to their fullest extent, staring lankly around, unseeing.
It was impossile... they couldn’t e here... not in Little Whinging... he strained his ears... he
would hear them efore he saw them...
"I’ll t-tell Dad!" Dudley whimpered. "W-where are you? What are you d-do--?"
"Will you shut up?" Harry hissed, "I’m trying to lis --"
But he fell silent. He had heard just the thing he had een dreading.
There was something in the alleyway apart from themselves, something that was drawing long,
hoarse, rattling reaths. Harry felt a horrile jolt of dread as he stood tremling in the freezing
air.
"C-cut it out! Stop doing it! I’ll h-hit you, I swear I will!"
"Dudley, shut--"
WHAM.
A fist made contact with the side of Harry’s head, lifting him off his feet. Small white lights
popped in front of his eyes. For the second time in an hour Harry felt as though his head had
een cleaved in two; next moment, he had landed hard on the ground and his wand had flown out
of his hand.
"You moron, Dudley!" Harry yelled, his eyes watering with pain as he scramled to his hands
and knees, feeling around frantically in the lackness. He heard Dudley lundering away, hitting
the alley fence, stumling.
"DUDLEY, COME BACK! YOU’RE RUNNING RIGHT AT IT!"
There was a horrile squealing yell and Dudley’s footsteps stopped. At the same moment, Harry
felt a creeping chill ehind him that could mean only one thing. There was more than one.
"DUDLEY, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! WHATEVER YOU DO, KEEP YOUR MOUTH
SHUT! Wand!" Harry muttered frantically, his hands flying over the ground like spiders.
"Where’s - wand -come on -lumos!"
He said the spell automatically, desperate for light to help him in his search - and to his
diselieving relief, light flared inches from his right hand - the wand tip had ignited. Harry
snatched it up, scramled to his feet and turned around.
His stomach turned over.
A towering, hooded figure was gliding smoothly towards him, hovering over the ground, no feet
or face visile eneath its roes, sucking on the night as it came.
Stumling ackwards, Harry raised his wand.
"Expecto patronum!"
A silvery wisp of vapour shot from the tip of the wand and the Dementor slowed, ut the spell
hadn’t worked properly; tripping over his own feet, Harry retreated further as the Dementor ore
down upon him, panic fogging his rain -concentrate -
A pair of grey, slimy, scaed hands slid from inside the Dementor’s roes, reaching for him. A
rushing noise filled Harry’s ears.
"Expecto patronum!"
His voice sounded dim and distant. Another wisp of silver smoke, feeler than the last, drifted
from the wand - he couldn’t do it any more, he couldn’t work the spell.
There was laughter inside his own head, shrill, high-pitched laughter... he could smell the
Dementor’s putrid, death-cold reath filling his own lungs, drowning him - think... something
happy...
But there was no happiness in him... the Dementor’s icy fingers were closing on his throat - the
high-pitched laughter was growing louder and louder, and a voice spoke inside his head: "Bow
to death, Harry... it might even e painless... I would no t know... I have never died..."
He was never going to see Ron and Hermione again -
And their faces urst clearly into his mind as he fought for reath.
"EXPECTO PATRONUM!"
An enormous silver stag erupted from the tip of Harry’s wand; its antlers caught the Dementor in
the place where the heart should have een; it was thrown ackwards, weightless as darkness,
and as the stag charged, the Dementor swooped away, at-like and defeated.
"THIS WAY!" Harry shouted at the stag. Wheeling around, he sprinted down the alleyway,
holding the lit wand aloft. "DUDLEY? DUDLEY!"
He had run arely a dozen steps when he reached them: Dudley was curled up on the ground, his
arms clamped over his face. A second Dementor was crouching low over him, gripping his
wrists in its slimy hands, prizing them slowly almost lovingly apart, lowering its hooded head
towards Dudley’s face as though aout to kiss him.
"GET IT!" Harry ellowed, and with a rushing, roaring sound, the silver stag he had conjured
came galloping past him. The Dementor’s eyeless face was arely an inch from Dudley’s when
the silver antlers caught it; the thing was thrown up into the air and, like its fellow, it soared
away and was asored into the darkness; the stag cantered to the end of the alleyway and
dissolved into silver mist.
Moon, stars and streetlamps urst ack into life. A warm reeze swept the alleyway. Trees
rustled in neighoring gardens and the mundane rumle of cars in Magnolia Crescent filled the
air again.
Harry stood quite still, all his senses virating, taking in the arupt return to normality. After a
moment, he ecame aware that his T-shirt was sticking to him; he was drenched in sweat.
He could not elieve what had just happened. Dementors here, in Little Whinging.
Dudley lay curled up on the ground, whimpering and shaking. Harry ent down to see whether
he was in a fit state to stand up, ut then he heard loud, running footsteps ehind him.
Instinctively raising his wand again, he span on his heel to face the newcomer.
Mrs. Figg, their atty old neighor, came panting into sight. Her grizzled grey hair was escaping from its hairnet, a clanking string shopping ag was swinging from her wrist and her feet were halfway out of her tartan carpet slippers. Harry made to stow his wand hurriedly out of sight, ut-
"Don’t put it away idiot oy!" she shrieked. "What if there are more of them around? Oh, I’m
going to kill Mundungus Fletcher!"
CHAPTER TWO
A Peck of Owls
"He left!" said Mrs. Figg, wringing her hands. "Left to see someone aout a atch of cauldrons
that fell off the ack of a room! I told him I’d flay him alive if he went, and now look!
Dementors! It’s just lucky I put Mr. Tiies on the case! But we haven’t got time to stand
around! Hurry, now, we’ve got to get you ack! Oh, the troule this is going to cause! I will kill
him!"
"But -" The revelation that his atty old cat-osessed neighor knew what Dementors were was
almost as ig a shock to Harry as meeting two of them down the alleyway. "You’re - you’re a
witch?"
"I’m a Squi, as Mundungus knows full well, so how on earth was I supposed to help you fight
off Dementors? He left you completely without cover when I’d warned him -"
"This Mundungus has een following me? Hang on - it was him! He Disapparated from the front
of my house!"
"Yes, yes, yes, ut luckily I’d stationed Mr. Tiies under a car just in case, and Mr. Tiies
came and warned me, ut y the time I got to your house you’d gone - and now - oh, what’s
Dumledore going to say? You!" she shrieked at Dudley, still supine on the alley floor. "Get your fat ottom off the ground, quick!"
"You know Dumledore?" said Harry, staring at her.
"Of course I know Dumledore, who doesn’t know Dumledore? But come on - I’ll e no help if
they come ack, I’ve never so much as transfigured a teaag."
She stooped down, seized one of Dudley’s massive arms in her wizened hands and tugged.
"Get up, you useless lump, get up!"
But Dudley either could not or would not move. He remained on the ground, tremling and
ashen-faced, his mouth shut very tight.
"I’ll do it." Harry took hold of Dudley’s arm and h heaved. With an enormous effort he managed to hoist him to his feet. Dudley seemed to e on the point of fainting. His small eyes were rolling in their sockets and sweat was eading his face; the moment Harry let go of him he swayed
dangerously.
"Hurry up!" said Mrs. Figg hysterically.
Harry pulled one of Dudley’s massive arms around his own shoulders and dragged him towards
the road, sagging slightly under the weight. Mrs. Figg tottered along in front of them, peering
anxiously around the corner.
"Keep your wand out," she told Harry, as they entered Wisteria Walk. "Never mind the Statute of Secrecy now, there’s going to e hell to pay anyway, we might as well e hanged for a dragon as an egg. Talk aout the Reasonale Restriction of Underage Sorcery... this was exactly what
Dumledore was afraid of - What’s that at the end of the street? Oh, it’s just Mr. Prentice...
don’t put your wand away, oy, don’t I keep telling you I’m no use?"
It was not easy to hold a wand steady and haul Dudley along at the same time. Harry gave his
cousin an impatient dig in the ris, ut Dudley seemed to have lost all desire for independent
movement. He was slumped on Harry’s shoulder, his large feet dragging along the ground.
"Why didn’t you tell me you’re a Squi, Mrs. Figg?" asked Harry, panting with the effort to keep
walking. "All those times I came round your house - why didn’t you say anything?"
"Dumledore’s orders. I was to keep an eye on you ut not say anything, you were too young.
I’m sorry I gave you such a miserale time, Harry, ut the Dursleys would never have let you
come if they’d thought you enjoyed it. It wasn’t easy, you know... ut oh my word," she said
tragically, wringing her hands once more, "when Dumledore hears aout this - how could
Mundungus have left, he was supposed to e on duty until midnight - where is he? How am I
going to tell Dumledore what’s happened? I can’t Apparate."
"I’ve got an owl, you can orrow her." Harry groaned, wondering whether his spine was going to
snap under Dudleys weight.
"Harry, you don’t understand! Dumledore will need to act as quickly as possile, the Ministry
have their own ways of detecting underage magic, they’ll know already, you mark my words."
"But I was getting rid of Dementors, I had to use magic - they’re going to e more worried aout
what Dementors were doing floating around Wisteria Walk, surely?"
"Oh, my dear, I wish it were so, ut I’m afraid - MUNDUNGUS FLETCHER, I AM GOING TO
KILL YOU!"
There was a loud crack and a strong smell of drink mingled with stale toacco filled the air as a
squat, unshaven man in a tattered overcoat materialized right in front of them. He had short,
andy legs, long straggly ginger hair and loodshot, aggy eyes that gave him the doleful look of
a asset hound. He was also clutching a silvery undle that Harry recognized at once as an
Invisiility Cloak.
"S’up, Figgy?" he said, staring from Mrs. Figg to Harry and Dudley. "What ‘appened to staying
undercover?"
"I’ll give you undercover!" cried Mrs. Figg. "Dementors, you useless, skiving sneak thief!"
"Dementors?" repeated Mundungus, aghast. "Dementors, ‘ere?"
"Yes, here, you worthless pile of at droppings, here!" shrieked Mrs. Figg. "Dementors attacking
the oy on your watch!"
"Blimey," said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs. Figg to Harry, and ack again. "Blimey, I
-"
"And you off uying stolen cauldrons! Didn’t I tell you not to go? Didn’t I!"
"I - well, I -" Mundungus looked deeply uncomfortale. "It -- it was a very good usiness
opportunity, see -"
Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string ag dangled and whacked Mundungus around the
face and neck with it; judging y the clanking noise it made it was full of cat food.
"Ouch - gerroff - gerroff, you mad old at! Someone’s gotta tell Dumledore!"
"Yes - they - have!" yelled Mrs. Figg, swinging the ag of cat food at every it of Mundungus
she could reach. "And - it - had - etter - e - you - and - you - can - tell - him - why - you -
weren’t - there - to - help!"
"Keep your ‘airnet on!" said Mundungus, his arms over his head, cowering. "I’m going, I’m
going!"
And with another loud crack, he vanished.
"I hope Dumledore murders him!" said Mrs. Figg furiously. "Now come on, Harry, what are
you waiting for?"
Harry decided not to waste his remaining reath on pointing out that he could arely walk under
Dudley’s ulk. He gave the semi-conscious Dudley a heave and staggered onwards.
"I’ll take you to the door," said Mrs. Figg, as they turned into Privet Drive. "Just in case there are
more of them around... oh my word, what a catastrophe... and you had to fight them off
yourself... and Dumledore said we were to keep you from doing magic at all costs... well, it’s
no good crying over spilt potion, I suppose... ut the cat’s among the pixies now."
"So," Harry panted, "Dumledore’s... een having... me followed?"
"Of course he has," said Mrs. Figg impatiently. "Did you expect him to let you wander around on your own after what happened in June? Good Lord, oy, they told me you were intelligent...
right... get inside and stay there," she said, as they reached numer four. "I expect someone will
e in touch with you soon enough."
"What are you going to do?" asked Harry quickly.
"I’m going straight home," said Mrs. Figg, staring around the dark street and shuddering. "I’ll
need to wait for more instructions. Just stay in the house. Goodnight."
"Hang on, don’t go yet! I want to know -"
But Mrs. Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet slippers flopping, string ag clanking.
"Wait!" Harry shouted after her. He had a million questions to ask anyone who was in contact
with Dumledore; ut within seconds Mrs. Figg was swallowed y the darkness. Scowling,
Harry readjusted Dudley on his shoulder and made his slow, painful way up numer four’s
garden path.
The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand ack inside the waistand of his jeans, rang the ell
and watched Aunt Petunia’s outline grow larger and larger, oddly distorted y the rippling glass
in the front door.
"Diddy! Aout time too, I was getting quite - quite -Diddy, what’s the matter!"
Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out from under his arm just in time. Dudley
swayed on the spot for a moment, his face pale green... then he opened his mouth and vomited
all over the doormat.
"DIDDY! Diddy, what’s the matter with you? Vernon? VERNON!"
Harry’s uncle came galumphing out of the living room, walrus moustache lowing hither and
thither as it always did when he was agitated. He hurried forwards to help Aunt Petunia negotiate
a weak-kneed Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping in the pool of sick.
"He’s ill, Vernon!"
"What is it, son? What’s happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss give you something foreign for tea?"
"Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you een lying on the ground?"
"Hang on - you haven’t een mugged, have you, son?"
Aunt Petunia screamed.
"Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, darling, speak to Mummy! What did they
do to you?"
In all the kerfuffle noody seemed to have noticed Harry, which suited him perfectly. He
managed to slip inside just efore Uncle Vernon slammed the door and, while the Dursleys made
their noisy progress down the hall towards the kitchen, Harry moved carefully and quietly
towards the stairs.
"Who did it, son? Give us names. We’ll get them, don’t worry."
"Shh! He’s trying to say something, Vernon! What is it, Diddy? Tell Mummy!"
Harry’s foot was on the ottom-most stair when Dudley found his voice.
"Him."
Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, raced for the explosion.
"BOY! COME HERE!"
With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry removed his foot slowly from the stair and
turned to follow the Dursleys.
The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal glitter after the darkness outside. Aunt
Petunia was ushering Dudley into a chair; he was still very green and clammy-looking. Uncle
Vernon standing in front of the draining oard, glaring at Harry through tiny, narrowed eyes.
"What have you done to my son?" he said in a menacing growl.
"Nothing," said Harry, knowing perfectly well that Uncle Vernon wouldn’t elieve him.
"What did he do to you, Diddy?" Aunt Petunia said in a quavering voice, now sponging sick from the front of Dudley’s leather jacket. "Was it - was it you-know-what, darling? Did he use - his thing?"
Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded.
"I didn’t!" Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out a wail and Uncle Vernon raised his fists. "I didn’t do anything to him, it wasn’t me, it was -"
But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in through the kitchen window. Narrowly
missing the top of Uncle Vernon’s head, it soared across the kitchen, dropped the large
parchment envelope it was carrying in its eak at Harry’s feet, turned gracefully, the tips of its
wings just rushing the top of the fridge, then zoomed outside again and off across the garden.
"OWLS!" ellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in his temple pulsing angrily as he
slammed the kitchen window shut. "OWLS AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY MORE OWLS
IN MY HOUSE!"
But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and pulling out the letter inside, his heart
pounding somewhere in the region of his Adam’s apple.
Dear Mr. Potter,
We have received intelligence that you performed the Patronus Charm at twenty-three minutes
past nine this evening in a Muggle-inhaited area and in the presence of a Muggle.
The severity of this reach of the Decree for the Reasonale Restriction of Underage Sorcery has
resulted in your expulsion from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Ministry
representatives will e calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand.
As you have already received an official warning for a previous offence under Section 13 of the
International Confederation of Warlocks’ Statute of Secrecy, we regret to inform you that your
presence is required at a disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic at 9 a.m. on the twelfth of
August.
Hoping you are well,
Yours sincerely,
Mafalda Hopkirk
Improper Use of Magic Office
Ministry of Magic
Harry read the letter through twice. He was only vaguely aware of Uncle Vernon and Aunt
Petunia talking. Inside his head, all was icy and num. One fact had penetrated his consciousness
like a paralyzing dart. He was expelled from Hogwarts. It was all over. He was never going ack.
He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was purple-faced, shouting, his fists still raised;
Aunt Petunia had her arms around Dudley, who was retching again.
Harry’s temporarily stupefied rain seemed to reawaken. Ministry representatives will e calling
at your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand. There was only one thing for it. He
would have to run - now. Where he was going to go, Harry didn’t know, ut he was certain of
one thing: at Hogwarts or outside it, he needed his wand. In an almost dream like state, he pulled
his wand out and turned to leave the kitchen.
"Where d’you think you’re going?" yelled Uncle Vernon. When Harry didn’t reply, he pounded
across the kitchen to lock the doorway into the hall. "I haven’t finished with you, oy!"
"Get out of the way," said Harry quietly.
"You’re going to stay here and explain how my son-"
"If you don’t get out of the way I’m going to jinx you," said Harry, raising the wand.
"You can’t pull that one on me!" snarled Uncle Vernon. "I know you’re not allowed to use it
outside that madhouse you call a school!"
"The madhouse has chucked me out," said Harry. "So I can do whatever I like. You’ve got three
seconds. One - two -"
A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen. Aunt Petunia screamed, ‘Hide!’ Uncle Vernon yelled
and ducked, ut for the third time that night Harry was searching for the source of a disturance
he had not made. He spotted it at once: a dazed and ruffled-looking arn owl was sitting outside
on the kitchen sill, having just collided with the closed window.
Ignoring Uncle Vernon’s anguished yell of ‘OWLS!’ Harry crossed the room at a run and
wrenched the window open. The owl stuck out its leg, to which a small roll of parchment was
tied, shook its leathers, and took off the moment Harry had taken the letter. Hands shaking,
Harry unfurled the second message, which was written very hastily and lotchily in lack ink.
Harry --
Dumledore’s just arrived at the Ministry and he’s trying to sort it all out. DO NOT LEAVE
YOUR AUNT AND UNCLE’S HOUSE. DO NOT DO ANY MORE MAGIC. DO NOT
SURRENDER YOUR WAND.
Arthur Weasley
Dumledore was trying to sort it all out... what did that mean? How much power did
Dumledore have to override the Ministry of Magic? Was there a chance that he might e
allowed ack to Hogwarts, then? A small shoot of hope urgeoned in Harry’s chest, almost
immediately strangled y panic - how was he supposed to refuse to surrender his wand without
doing magic? He’d have to duel with the Ministry representatives, and if he did that, he’d e
lucky to escape Azkaan, let alone expulsion.
His mind was racing... he could run for it and risk eing captured y the Ministry, or stay put
and wait for them to find him here. He was much more tempted y the former course, ut he
knew Mr. Weasley had his est interests at heart... and after all, Dumledore had sorted out
much worse than this efore.
"Right," Harry said, "I’ve changed my mind, I’m staying." He flung himself down at the kitchen
tale and faced Dudley and Aunt Petunia. The Dursleys appeared taken aack at his arupt
change of mind. Aunt Petunia glanced despairingly at Uncle Vernon. The vein in his purple
temple was throing worse than ever.
"Who are all these ruddy owls from?" he growled.
"The first one was from the Ministry of Magic, expelling me," said Harry calmly. He was
straining his ears to catch any noises outside, in case the Ministry representatives were
approaching, and it was easier and quieter to answer Uncle Vernon’s questions than to have him
start raging and ellowing. "The second one was from my friend Ron’s dad, who works at the
Ministry."
"Ministry of Magic?" ellowed Uncle Vernon. "People like you in government! Oh, this explains everything, everything, no wonder the country’s going to the dogs."
When Harry did not respond, Uncle Vernon glared at him, then spat out, "And why have you
een expelled?"
"Because I did magic."
"AHA!" roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down on top of the fridge, which sprang open;
several of Dudley’s low-fat snacks toppled out and urst on the floor. "So you admit it! What did
you do to Dudley?"
"Nothing," said Harry, slightly less calmly. "That wasn’t me -"
"Was," muttered Dudley unexpectedly, and Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia instantly made
flapping gestures at Harry to quieten him while they oth ent low over Dudley.
"Go on, son," said Uncle Vernon, "what did he do?"
"Tell us, darling," whispered Aunt Petunia.
"Pointed his wand at me," Dudley mumled.
"Yeah, I did, ut I didn’t use -" Harry egan angrily, ut -
"SHUT UP!" roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in unison.
"Go on, son," repeated Uncle Vernon, moustache lowing aout furiously.
"All went dark," Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering. "Everything dark. And then I h-heard...
things. Inside m-my head."
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of utter horror. If their least favorite thing in
the world was magic - closely followed y neighors who cheated more than they did on the
hosepipe an - people who heard voices were definitely in the ottom ten. They oviously
thought Dudley was losing his mind.
"What sort of things did you hear, Popkin?" reathed Aunt Petunia, very white-faced and with
tears in her eyes.
But Dudley seemed incapale of saying. He shuddered again and shook his large lond head, and
despite the sense of num dread that had settled on Harry since the arrival of the first owl, he felt
a certain curiosity. Dementors caused a person to relive the worst moments of their life. What
would spoiled, pampered, ullying Dudley have een forced to hear?
"How come you fell over, son?" said Uncle Vernon, in an unnaturally quiet voice, the kind of
voice he might adopt at the edside of a very ill person.
"T-tripped," said Dudley shakily. "And then -"
He gestured at his massive chest. Harry understood. Dudley was rememering the clammy cold
that filled the lungs as hope and happiness were sucked out of you.
"Horrile," croaked Dudley. "Cold. Really cold."
"Okay," said Uncle Vernon, in a voice of forced calm, while Aunt Petunia laid an anxious hand on Dudley’s forehead to feel his temperature. "What happened then, Dudders?"
"Felt... felt... felt... as if... as if..."
"As if you’d never e happy again," Harry supplied dully.
"Yes," Dudley whispered, still tremling.
"So!" said Uncle Vernon, voice restored to full and considerale volume as he straightened up.
"You put some crackpot spell on my son so he’d hear voices and elieve he was - was doomed to
misery, or something, did you?"
"How many times do I have to tell you?" said Harry, temper and voice oth rising. "It wasn’t me! It was a couple of Dementors!"
"A couple of - what’s this codswallop?"
"De - men - tors," said Harry slowly and clearly. "Two of them."
"And what the ruddy hell are Dementors?"
"They guard the wizard prison, Azkaan," said Aunt Petunia.
Two seconds of ringing silence followed these words efore Aunt Petunia clapped her hand over
her mouth as though she had let slip a disgusting swear word. Uncle Vernon was goggling at her.
Harry’s rain reeled. Mrs. Figg was one thing - ut Aunt Petunia?
"How d’you know that?" he asked her, astonished.
Aunt Petunia looked quite appalled with herself. She glanced at Uncle Vernon in fearful apology,
then lowered her hand slightly to reveal her horsy teeth.
"I heard - that awful oy - telling her aout them - years ago," she said jerkily.
"If you mean my mum and dad, why don’t you use their names?" said Harry loudly, ut Aunt
Petunia ignored him. She seemed horrily flustered.
Harry was stunned. Except for one outurst years ago, in the course of which Aunt Petunia had
screamed that Harry’s mother had een a freak, he had never heard her mention her sister. He
was astounded that she had rememered this scrap of information aout the magical world for so
long, when she usually put all her energies into pretending it didn’t exist.
Uncle Vernon opened his mouth, closed it again, opened it once more, shut it, then, apparently
struggling to rememer how to talk, opened it for a third time and croaked, "So - so - they - er -
they - er - they actually exist, do they - er - Dementy-whatsits?"
Aunt Petunia nodded.
Uncle Vernon looked from Aunt Petunia to Dudley to Harry as if hoping someody was going to
shout ‘April Fool!’ When noody did, he opened his mouth yet again, ut was spared the
struggle to find more words y the arrival of the third owl of the evening. It zoomed through the
still-open window like a feathery cannon-all and landed with a clatter on the kitchen tale,
causing all three of the Dursleys to jump with fright. Harry tore a second official-looking
envelope from the owls eak and ripped it open as the owl swooped ack out into the night.
"Enough - effing - owls," muttered Uncle Vernon distractedly, stomping over to the window and
slamming it shut again.
Dear Mr. Potter,
Further to our letter of approximately twenty-two minutes ago, the Ministry of Magic has revised
its decision to destroy your wand forthwith. You may retain your wand until your disciplinary
hearing on the twelfth of August, at which time an official decision will e taken.
Following discussions with the Headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, the
Ministry has agreed that the question of your expulsion will also e decided at that time. You
should therefore consider yourself suspended from school pending further enquiries.
With est wishes,
Yours sincerely,
Mafalda Hopkirk
Improper Use of Magic Office
Ministry of Magic
Harry read this letter through three times in quick succession. The miserale knot in his chest
loosened slightly with the relief of Knowing he was not yet definitely expelled, though his fears
were y no means anished. Everything seemed to hang on this hearing on the twelfth of August.
"Well?" said Uncle Vernon, recalling Harry to his surroundings. "What now? Have they
sentenced you to anything? Do your lot have the death penalty?" he added as a hopeful
afterthought.
"I’ve got to go to a hearing," said Harry.
"And they’ll sentence you there?"
"I suppose so."
"I won’t give up hope, then," said Uncle Vernon nastily.
"Well, if that’s all," said Harry, getting to his feet. He was desperate to e alone, to think, perhaps to send a letter to Ron, Hermione or Sirius.
"NO, IT RUDDY WELL IS NOT ALL!" ellowed Uncle Vernon. "SIT BACK DOWN!"
"What now?" said Harry impatiently.
"DUDLEY!" roared Uncle Vernon. "I want to know exactly what happened to my son!"
"FINE!" yelled Harry, and in his temper, red and gold sparks shot out of the end of his wand, still clutched in his hand. All three Dursleys flinched, looking terrified.
"Dudley and I were in the alleyway etween Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk," said Harry,
speaking fast, fighting to control his temper. "Dudley thought he’d e smart with me, I pulled out
my wand ut didn’t use it. Then two Dementors turned up --"
"But what ARE Dementoids?" asked Uncle Vernon furiously. "What do they DO?"
"I told you - they suck all the happiness out of you," said Harry, "and if they get the chance, they
kiss you -
"Kiss you?" said Uncle Vernon, his eyes popping slightly. "Kiss you?"
"It’s what they call it when they suck the soul out of your mouth."
Aunt Petunia uttered a soft scream.
"His soul? They didn’t take - he’s still got his -"
She seized Dudley y the shoulders and shook him, as though testing to see whether she could
hear his soul rattling around inside him.
"Of course they didn’t get his soul, you’d know if they had," said Harry, exasperated.
"Fought ‘em off, did you, son?" said Uncle Vernon loudly, with the appearance of a man
struggling to ring the conversation ack on to a plane he understood. "Gave ‘em the old one-two, did you?"
"You can’t give a Dementor the old one-two," said Harry through clenched teeth.
"Why’s he all right, then?" lustered Uncle Vernon. "Why isn’t he all empty, then?"
"Because I used the Patronus -"
WHOOSH. With a clattering, a whirring of wings and a soft fall of dust, a fourth owl came
shooting out of the kitchen fireplace.
"FOR GOD’S SAKE!" roared Uncle Vernon, pulling great clumps of hair out of his moustache,
something he hadn’t een driven to do in a long time. "I WILL NOT HAVE OWLS HERE, I
WILL NOT TOLERATE THIS, I TELL YOU!"
But Harry was already pulling a roll of parchment from the owl’s leg. He was so convinced that
this letter had to e from Dumledore, explaining everything - the Dementors, Mrs. Figg, what
the Ministry was up to, how he, Dumledore, intended to sort everything out - that for the first
time in his life he was disappointed to see Sirius’s handwriting. Ignoring Uncle Vernon’s
on going rant aout owls, and narrowing his eyes against a second cloud of dust as the most
recent owl look off ack up the chimney, Harry read Sirius’s message.
Arthur’s just told us what’s happened. Don’t leave the house again, whatever you do.
Harry found this such an inadequate response to everything that had happened tonight that he
turned the piece of parchment over, looking for the rest of the letter, ut there was nothing else.
And now his temper was rising again. Wasn’t anyody going to say ‘well done’ for fighting off
two Dementors single-handed? Both Mr. Weasley and Sirius were acting as though he’d
misehaved, and were saving their tellings-off until they could ascertain how much damage had
een done.
"...A peck, I mean, pack of owls shooting in and out of my house. I won’t have it, oy, I won’t-"
"I can’t stop the owls coming," Harry snapped, crushing Sirius’s letter in his fist.
"I want the truth aout what happened tonight!" ar ked Uncle Vernon. "If it was Demenders who hurt Dudley, how come you’ve een expelled? You did you-know-what, you’ve admitted it!"
Harry took a deep, steadying reath. His head was eginning to ache again. He wanted more than
anything to get out of the kitchen, and away from the Dursleys.
"I did the Patronus Charm to get rid of the Dementors," he said, forcing himself to remain calm.
"It’s the only thing that works against them."
"But what were Dementoids doing in Little Whinging?" said Uncle Vernon in an outraged tone.
"Couldn’t tell you," said Harry wearily. "No idea."
His head was pounding in the glare of the strip-lighting now. His anger was eing away. He felt
drained, exhausted. The Dursleys were all staring at him.
"It’s you," said Uncle Vernon forcefully. "It’s go t something to do with you, oy, I know it. Why else would they turn up here? Why else would they e down that alleyway? You’ve got to e the only - the only -" Evidently, he couldn’t ring himself to say the word ‘wizard’ "the only you know-what for miles."
"I don’t know why they were here."
But at Uncle Vernon’s words, Harry’s exhausted rain had ground ack into action. Why had the
Dementors come to Little Whinging? How could it e coincidence that they had arrived in the
alleyway where Harry was? Had they een sent? Had the Ministry of Magic lost control of the
Dementors? Had they deserted Azkaan and joined Voldemort, as Dumledore had predicted
they would?
"These Dememers guard some weirdo’s prison?" asked Uncle Vernon, lumering along in the
wake of Harry’s train of thought.
"Yes," said Harry.
If only his head would stop hurting, if only he could just leave the kitchen and get to his dark
edroom and think...
"Oho! They were coming to arrest you!" said Uncle Vernon, with the triumphant air of a man
reaching an unassailale conclusion. "That’s it, isn’t it, oy? You’re on the run from the law!"
"Of course I’m not," said Harry, shaking his head as though to scare off a fly, his mind racing
now.
"Then why -?"
"He must have sent them," said Harry quietly, more to himself than to Uncle Vernon.
"What’s that? Who must have sent them?"
"Lord Voldemort," said Harry.
He registered dimly how strange it was that the Dursleys, who flinched, winced and squawked if
they heard words like ‘wizard’, ‘magic’ or ‘wand’, could hear the name of the most evil wizard
of all time without the slightest tremor.
"Lord - hang on," said Uncle Vernon, his face screwed up, a look of dawning comprehension
coming into his piggy eyes. "I’ve heard that name... that was the one who --"
"Murdered my parents, yes," Harry said dully.
"But he’s gone," said Uncle Vernon impatiently, without the slightest sign that the murder of
Harry’s parents might e a painful topic. "That giant loke said so. He’s gone."
"He’s ack," said Harry heavily.
It felt very strange to e standing here in Aunt Petunia’s surgically clean kitchen, eside the top of-the-range fridge and the wide-screen television, talking calmly of Lord Voldemort to Uncle
Vernon. The arrival of the Dementors in Little Whinging seemed to have reached the great,
invisile wall that divided the relentlessly non-magical world of Privet Drive and the world
eyond, Harry’s two lives had somehow ecome fused and everything had een turned upside-down; the Dursleys were asking for details aout the magical world, and Mrs. Figg knew Alus Dumledore; Dementors were soaring around Little Whinging, and he might never return to Hogwarts. Harry’s head throed more painfully.
"Back?" whispered Aunt Petunia.
She was looking at Harry as she had never looked at him efore. And all of a sudden, for the
very first time in his life, Harry fully appreciated that Aunt Petunia was his mother’s sister. He
could not have said why this hit him so very powerfully at this moment. All he knew was that he
was not the only person in the room who had an inkling of what Lord Voldemort eing ack
might mean. Aunt Petunia had never in her life looked at him like that efore. Her large, pale
eyes (so unlike her sister’s) were not narrowed in dislike or anger, they were wide and fearful.
The furious pretence that Aunt Petunia had maintained all Harry’s life - that there was no magic
and no world other than the world she inhaited with Uncle Vernon - seemed to have fallen
away.
"Yes," Harry said, talking directly to Aunt Petunia now. "He came ack a month ago. I saw him."
Her hands found Dudley’s massive leather-clad shoulders and clutched them.
"Hang on," said Uncle Vernon, looking from his wife to Harry and ack again, apparently dazed
and confused y the unprecedented understanding that seemed to have sprung up etween them.
"Hang on. This Lord Voldything’s ack, you say."
"Yes."
"The one who murdered your parents."
"Yes."
"And now he’s sending Dismemers after you?"
"Looks like it," said Harry.
"I see," said Uncle Vernon, looking from his white - faced wife to Harry and hitching up his
trousers. He seemed to e swelling, his great purple face stretching efore Harry’s eyes. "Well,
that settles it," he said, his shirt front straining as he inflated himself, "you can get out of this
house, oy!"
"What?" said Harry.
"You heard me - OUT!" Uncle Vernon ellowed, and even Aunt Petunia and Dudley jumped.
"OUT! OUT! I should’ve done this years ago! Owls treating the place like a rest home, puddings
exploding, half the lounge destroyed, Dudley’s tail, Marge oing around on the ceiling and
that flying Ford Anglia - OUT! OUT! You’ve had it! You’re history! You’re not staying here if
some loony’s after you, you’re not endangering my wife and son, you’re not ringing troule
down on us. If you’re going the same way as your useless parents, I’ve had it! OUT!"
Harry stood rooted to the spot. The letters from the Ministry, Mr. Weasley and Sirius were all
crushed in his left hand. Don’t leave the house again, whatever you do. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND UNCLE’S HOUSE.
"You heard me!" said Uncle Vernon, ending forward now, his massive purple face coming so
close to Harry’s, he actually felt flecks of spit hit his face. "Get going! You were all keen to leave half an hour ago! I’m right ehind you! Get out and never darken our doorstep again! Why we ever kept you in the first place, I don’t know, Marge was right, it should have een the
orphanage. We were too damn soft for our own good, thought we could squash it out of you,
thought we could turn you normal, ut you’ve een rotten from the eginning and I’ve had
enough - owls!"
The fifth owl zoomed down the chimney so fast it actually hit the floor efore zooming into the
air again with a loud screech. Harry raised his hand to seize the letter, which was in a scarlet
envelope, ut it soared straight over his head, flying directly at Aunt Petunia, who let out a
scream and ducked, her arms over her face. The owl dropped the red envelope on her head,
turned, and flew straight ack up the chimney.
Harry darted forwards to pick up the letter, ut Aunt Petunia eat him to it.
"You can open it if you like," said Harry, "ut I’ll hear what it says anyway. That’s a Howler."
"Let go of it, Petunia!" roared Uncle Vernon. "Don’t touch it, it could e dangerous!"
"It’s addressed to me," said Aunt Petunia in a shaking voice. "It’s addressed to me, Vernon, look! Mrs. Petunia Dursley, The Kitchen, Numer Four, Privet Drive -"
She caught her reath, horrified. The red envelope had egun to smoke.
"Open it!’ Harry urged her. "Get it over with! It’ll happen anyway."
"No."
Aunt Petunia’s hand was tremling. She looked wildly around the kitchen as though looking for
an escape route, ut too late -the envelope urst into flames. Aunt Petunia screamed and dropped
it.
An awful voice filled the kitchen, echoing in the confined space, issuing from the urning letter
on the tale.
Rememer my last, Petunia.
Aunt Petunia looked as though she might faint. She sank into the chair eside Dudley, her face in
her hands. The remains of the envelope smouldered into ash in the silence.
"What is this?" Uncle Vernon said hoarsely. "What - I don’t -Petunia?"
Aunt Petunia said nothing. Dudley was staring stupidly at his mother, his mouth hanging open.
The silence spiraled horrily. Harry was watching his aunt, utterly ewildered, his head
throing fit to urst.
"Petunia, dear?" said Uncle Vernon timidly. "P-Petunia?"
She raised her head. She was still tremling. She swallowed.
"The oy - the oy will have to stay, Vernon," she said weakly.
"W-what?"
"He stays," she said. She was not looking at Harry. She got to her feet again.
"He... ut Petunia..."
"If we throw him out, the neighors will talk," she said. She was rapidly regaining her usual
risk, snappish manner, though she was still very pale. "They’ll ask awkward questions, they’ll
want to know where he’s gone. We’ll have to keep him."
Uncle Vernon was deflating like an old tire.
"But Petunia, dear -"
Aunt Petunia ignored him. She turned to Harry. "You’re to stay in your room," she said. "You’re
not to leave the house. Now get to ed."
Harry didn’t move.
"Who was that Howler from?"
"Don’t ask questions," Aunt Petunia snapped.
"Are you in touch with wizards?"
"I told you to get to ed!"
"What did it mean? Rememer the last what?"
"Go to ed!"
"How come -?"
"YOU HEARD YOUR AUNT, NOW GET TO BED!"
CHAPTER THREE
The Advance Guard
I’ve just een attacked y Dementors and I might e expelled from Hogwarts. I want to know
what’s going on and when I’m going to get out of here.
Harry copied these words on to three separate pieces of parchment the moment he reached the
desk in his dark edroom. He addressed the first to Sirius, the second to Ron and the third to
Hermione. His owl, Hedwig, was off hunting; her cage stood empty on the desk. Harry paced the
edroom waiting for her to come ack, his head pounding, his rain too usy for sleep even
though his eyes stung and itched with tiredness. His ack ached from hauling Dudley home, and
the two lumps on his head where the window and Dudley had hit him were throing painfully.
Up and down he paced, consumed with anger and frustration, grinding his teeth and clenching
his fists, casting angry looks out at the empty, star-strewn sky every time he passed the window.
Dementors sent to get him, Mrs. Figg and Mundungus Fletcher tailing him in secret, then
suspension from Hogwarts and a hearing at the Ministry of Magic - and still no one was telling
him what was going on.
And what, what, had that Howler een aout? Whose voice had echoed so horrily, so
menacingly, through the kitchen?
Why was he still trapped here without information? Why was everyone treating him like some
naughty kid? Don’t do any more magic, stay in the house...
He kicked his school trunk as he passed it, ut far from relieving his anger he felt worse, as he
now had a sharp pain in his toe to deal with in addition to the pain in the rest of his ody.
Just as he limped past the window, Hedwig soared through it with a soft rustle of wings like a
small ghost.
"Aout time!" Harry snarled, as she landed lightly on top of her cage. "You can put that down,
I’ve got work for you!"
Hedwig’s large, round, amer eyes gazed at him reproachfully over the dead frog clamped in her
eak.
"Come here," said Harry, picking up the three small rolls of parchment and a leather thong and
tying the scrolls to her scaly leg. "Take these straight to Sirius, Ron and Hermione and don’t come ack here without good long replies. Keep pecking them till they’ve written decent-length
answers if you’ve got to. Understand?"
Hedwig gave a muffled hooting noise, her eak still full of frog.
"Get going, then," said Harry.
She took off immediately. The moment she’d gone, Harry threw himself down on his ed
without undressing and stared at the dark ceiling. In addition to every other miserale feeling, he
now felt guilty that he’d een irritale with Hedwig; she was the only friend he had at numer
four, Privet Drive. But he’d make it up to her when she came ack with the answers from Sirius,
Ron and Hermione.
They were ound to write ack quickly; they couldn’t possily ignore a Dementor attack. He’d
proaly wake up tomorrow to three fat letters full of sympathy and plans for his immediate
removal to The Burrow. And with that comforting idea, sleep rolled over him, stifling all further
thought.
But Hedwig didn’t return next morning. Harry spent the day in his edroom, leaving it only to go
to the athroom. Three times that day Aunt Petunia shoved food into his room through the cat flap Uncle Vernon had installed three summers ago. Every time Harry heard her approaching he tried to question her aout the Howler, ut he might as well have interrogated the doorkno for all the answers he got. Otherwise, the Dursleys kept well clear of his edroom. Harry couldn’t see the point of forcing his company on them; another row would achieve nothing except perhaps make him so angry he’d perform more illegal magic.
So it went on for three whole days. Harry was alternately filled with restless energy that made
him unale to settle to anything, during which time he paced his edroom, furious at the whole
lot of them for leaving him to stew in this mess; and with a lethargy so complete that he could lie
on his ed for an hour at a time, staring dazedly into space, aching with dread at the thought of
the Ministry hearing.
What if they ruled against him? What if he was expelled and his wand was snapped in half? What would he do, where would he go? He could not return to living full-time with the Dursleys, not now he knew the other world, the one to which he really elonged. Might he e ale to move
into Sirius’s house, as Sirius had suggested a year ago, efore he had een forced to flee from the
Ministry? Would Harry e allowed to live there alone, given that he was still underage? Or
would the matter of where he went next e decided for him? Had his reach of the International
Statute of Secrecy een severe enough to land him in a cell in Azkaan? Whenever this thought
occurred, Harry invarialy slid off his ed and egan pacing again.
On the fourth night after Hedwig’s departure Harry was lying in one of his apathetic phases,
staring at the ceiling, his exhausted mind quite lank, when his uncle entered his edroom. Harry
looked slowly around at him. Uncle Vernon was wearing his est suit and an expression of
enormous smugness.
"We’re going out," he said.
"Sorry?"
"We - that is to say, your aunt, Dudley and I - are going out."
"Fine," said Harry dully, looking ack at the ceiling.
"You are not to leave your edroom while we are away."
"Okay."
"You are not to touch the television, the stereo, or any of our possessions."
"Right."
"You are not to steal food from the fridge."
"Okay."
"I am going to lock your door."
"You do that."
Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, clearly suspicious of this lack of argument, then stomped out of
the room and closed the door ehind him. Harry heard the key turn in the lock and Uncle
Vernon’s footsteps walking heavily down the stairs. A few minutes later he heard the slamming
of car doors, the rumle of an engine, and the unmistakale sound of the car sweeping out of the
drive.
Harry had no particular feeling aout the Dursleys leaving. It made no difference to him whether
they were in the house or not. He could not even summon the energy to get up and turn on his
edroom light. The room grew steadily darker around him as he lay listening to the night sounds
through the window he kept open all the time, waiting for the lessed moment when Hedwig
returned. The empty house creaked around him. The pipes gurgled. Harry lay there in a kind of
stupor, thinking of nothing, suspended in misery.
Then, quite distinctly, he heard a crash in the kitchen elow. He sat olt upright, listening
intently. The Dursleys couldn’t e ack, it was much too soon, and in any case he hadn’t heard
their car.
There was silence for a few seconds, then voices. Burglars, he thought, sliding off the ed on to
his feet - ut a split second later it occurred to him that urglars would keep their voices down,
and whoever was moving around in the kitchen was certainly not trouling to do so.
He snatched up his wand from the edside tale and stood facing his edroom door, listening
with all his might. Next moment, he jumped as the lock gave a loud click and his door swung
open. Harry stood motionless, staring through the open doorway at the dark upstairs landing,
straining his ears for further sounds, ut none came. He hesitated for a moment, then moved
swiftly and silently out of his room to the head of the stairs.
His heart shot upwards into his throat. There were people standing in the shadowy hall elow,
silhouetted against the streetlight glowing through the glass door; eight or nine of them, all, as far
as he could see, looking up at him.
"Lower your wand, oy, efore you take someone’s eye out," said a low, growling voice.
Harry’s heart was thumping uncontrollaly. He knew that voice, ut he did not lower his wand.
"Professor Moody?" he said uncertainly.
"I don’t know so much aout ‘Professor’," growled the voice, "never got round to much teaching, did I? Get down here, we want to see you properly."
Harry lowered his wand slightly ut did not relax his grip on it, nor did he move. He had very
good reason to e suspicious. He had recently spent nine months in what he had thought was
Mad-Eye Moody’s company only to find out that it wasn’t Moody at all, ut an impostor; an
impostor, moreover, who had tried to kill Harry efore eing unmasked. But efore he could
make a decision aout what to do next, a second, slightly hoarse voice floated upstairs.
"It’s all right, Harry. We’ve come to take you away."
Harry’s heart leapt. He knew that voice, too, though he hadn’t heard it for over a year.
"P-Professor Lupin?" he said diselievingly. "Is that you?"
"Why are we all standing in the dark?" said a third voice, this one completely unfamiliar, a
woman’s. "Lumos."
A wand-tip flared, illuminating the hall with magical light. Harry linked. The people elow
were crowded around the foot of the stairs, gazing up at him intently, some craning their heads
for a etter look.
Remus Lupin stood nearest to him. Though still quite young, Lupin looked tired and rather ill; he
had more grey hairs than when Harry had last said goodye to him and his roes were more
patched and shaier than ever. Nevertheless, he was smiling roadly at Harry, who tried to
smile ack despite his state of shock.
"Oooh, he looks just like I thought he would," said the witch who was holding her lit wand aloft.
She looked the youngest there; she had a pale heart-shaped face, dark twinkling eyes, and short
spiky hair that was a violent shade of violet. "Wotcher, Harry!"
"Yeah, I see what you mean, Remus," said a ald lack wizard standing furthest ack - he had a
deep, slow voice and wore a single gold hoop in his ear - "he looks exactly like James."
"Except the eyes," said a wheezy-voiced, silver-haired wizard at the ack. "Lily’s eyes."
Mad-Eye Moody, who had long grizzled grey hair and a large chunk missing from his nose, was
squinting suspiciously at Harry through his mismatched eyes. One eye was small, dark and
eady, the other large, round and electric lue - the magical eye that could see through walls,
doors and the ack of Moody’s own head. "Are you quite sure it’s him, Lupin?" he growled. "It’d e a nice lookout if we ring ack some Death Eater impersonating him. We ought to ask him something only the real Potter would know. Unless anyone rought any Veritaserum?"
"Harry, what form does your Patronus take?" Lupin asked.
"A stag," said Harry nervously.
"That’s him, Mad-Eye," said Lupin.
Very conscious of everyody still staring at him, Harry descended the stairs, stowing his wand in
the ack pocket of his jeans as he came.
"Don’t put your wand there, oy!" roared Moody. "What if it ignited? Better wizards than you
have lost uttocks, you know!"
"Who d’you know who’s lost a uttock?" the violet-haired woman asked Mad-Eye interestedly.
"Never you mind, you just keep your wand out of your ack pocket!" growled Mad-Eye.
"Elementary wand-safety, noody others aout it any more." He stumped off towards the
kitchen. "And I saw that," he added irritaly, as t he woman rolled her eyes towards the ceiling.
Lupin held out his hand and shook Harry’s.
"How are you?" he asked, looking closely at Harry.
"F-fine..."
Harry could hardly elieve this was real. Four weeks with nothing, not the tiniest hint of a plan to
remove him from Privet Drive, and suddenly a whole unch of wizards was standing matter-of factly in the house as though this was a long-standing arrangement. He glanced at the people
surrounding Lupin; they were still gazing avidly at him. He felt very conscious of the fact that he
had not comed his hair for four days.
"I’m - you’re really lucky the Dursleys are out..." he mumled.
"Lucky, ha!" said the violet-haired woman. "It was me who lured them out of the way. Sent a
letter y Muggle post telling them they’d een short-listed for the All-England Best Kept
Suuran Lawn Competition. They’re heading off to the prize-giving right now... or they think
they are."
Harry had a fleeting vision of Uncle Vernon’s face when he realized there was no All-England
Best Kept Suuran Lawn Competition.
"We are leaving, aren’t we?" he asked. "Soon?"
"Almost at once," said Lupin, "we’re just waiting for the all-clear."
"Where are we going? The Burrow?" Harry asked hopefully.
"Not The Burrow, no," said Lupin, motioning Harry towards the kitchen; the little knot of
wizards followed, all still eyeing Harry curiously. "Too risky. We’ve set up Headquarters
somewhere undetectale. It’s taken a while..."
Mad-Eye Moody was now sitting at the kitchen tale swigging from a hip flask, his magical eye
spinning in all directions, taking in the Dursleys’ many laor-saving appliances.
"This is Alastor Moody, Harry" Lupin continued, pointing towards Moody.
"Yeah, I know," said Harry uncomfortaly. It felt odd to e introduced to someody he’d thought he’d known for a year.
"And this is Nymphadora -"
"Don’t call me Nymphadora, Remus," said the young witch with a shudder, "it’s Tonks."
"Nymphadora Tonks, who prefers to e known y her surname only," finished Lupin.
"So would you if your fool of a mother had called you Nymphadora," muttered Tonks.
"And this is Kingsley Shackleolt." He indicated the tall lack wizard, who owed. "Elphias
Doge." The wheezy-voiced wizard nodded. "Dedalus Diggle -"
"We’ve met efore," squeaked the excitale Diggle, dropping his violet-colored top hat.
"Emmeline Vance." A stately-looking witch in an emerald green shawl inclined her head.
"Sturgis Podmore." A square-jawed wizard with thick straw-colored hair winked. "And Hestia
Jones." A pink-cheeked, lack-haired witch waved form next to the toaster.
Harry inclined his head awkwardly at each of them as they were introduced. He wished they
would look at something other than him; it was as though he had suddenly een ushered onstage.
He also wondered why so many of them were there.
"A surprising numer of people volunteered to come and get you," said Lupin, as though he had
read Harry’s mind; the corners of his mouth twitched slightly.
"Yeah, well, the more the etter," said Moody darkly. "We’re your guard, Potter."
"We’re just waiting for the signal to tell us it’s safe to set off," said Lupin, glancing out of the
kitchen window. "We’ve got aout fifteen minutes."
"Very clean, aren’t they, these Muggles?" said the witch called Tonks, who was looking around
the kitchen with great interest. "My dad’s Muggle-orn and he’s a right old slo. I suppose it
varies, just as it does with wizards?"
"Er - yeah," said Harry. "Look -" he turned ack to Lupin, "what’s going on, I haven’t heard
anything from anyone, what’s Vol--?"
Several of the witches and wizards made odd hissing noises; Dedalus Diggle dropped his hat
again and Moody growled, "Shut up!"
"What?" said Harry.
"We’re not discussing anything here, it’s too risky," said Moody, turning his normal eye on
Harry. His magical eye remained focused on the ceiling. "Damn it," he added angrily, putting a
hand up to the magical eye, "it keeps getting stuck - ever since that scum wore it."
And with a nasty squelching sound much like a plunger eing pulled from a sink, he popped out
his eye.
"Mad-Eye, you do know that’s disgusting, don’t you?" said Tonks conversationally.
"Get me a glass of water, would you, Harry," requested Moody.
Harry crossed to the dishwasher, took out a clean glass and filled it with water at the sink, still
watched eagerly y the and of wizards. Their relentless staring was starting to annoy him.
"Cheers," said Moody, when Harry handed him the glass. He dropped the magical eyeall into
the water and prodded it up and down; the eye whizzed around, staring at them all in turn. "I
want three hundred and sixty degrees visiility on the return journey."
"How’re we getting - wherever we’re going?" Harry asked.
"Brooms," said Lupin. "Only way. You’re too young to Apparate, they’ll e watching the Floo
Network and it’s more than our life’s worth to set up an unauthorized Portkey."
"Remus says you’re a good flier," said Kingsley Shackleolt in his deep voice.
"He’s excellent," said Lupin, who was checking his watch. "Anyway, you’d etter go and get
packed, Harry, we want to e ready to go when the signal comes."
"I’ll come and help you," said Tonks rightly.
She followed Harry ack into the hall and up the stairs, looking around with much curiosity and
interest.
"Funny place," she said. "It’s a it too clean, d’you know what I mean? Bit unnatural. Oh, this is
etter," she added, as they entered Harry’s edroom and he turned on the light.
His room was certainly much messier than the rest of the house. Confined to it for four days in a
very ad mood, Harry had not othered tidying up after himself. Most of the ooks he owned
were strewn over the floor where he’d tried to distract himself with each in turn and thrown it
aside; Hedwig’s cage needed cleaning out and was starting to smell; and his trunk lay open,
revealing a jumled mixture of Muggle clothes and wizards’ roes that had spilled on to the floor
around it.
Harry started picking up ooks and throwing them hastily into his trunk. Tonks paused at his
open wardroe to look critically at her reflection in the mirror on the inside of the door.
"You know, I don’t think violet’s really my color," she said pensively, tugging at a lock of spiky hair. "D’you think it makes me look a it peaky?"
"Er -" said Harry, looking up at her over the top of Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland.
"Yeah, it does," said Tonks decisively. She screwed up her eyes in a strained expression as
though she was struggling to rememer something. A second later, her hair had turned ulegum pink.
"How did you do that?" said Harry, gaping at her as she opened her eyes again.
"I’m a Metamorphmagus," she said, looking ack at her reflection and turning her head so that
she could see her hair from all directions. "It means I can change my appearance at will," she
added, spotting Harry’s puzzled expression in the mirror ehind her. "I was orn one. I got top
marks in Concealment and Disguise during Auror training without any study at all, it was great."
"You’re an Auror?" said Harry, impressed. Being a Dark-wizard-catcher was the only career he’d ever considered after Hogwarts.
"Yeah," said Tonks, looking proud. "Kingsley is as well, he’s a it higher up than me, though. I
only qualified a year ago. Nearly failed on Stealth and Tracking. I’m dead clumsy, did you hear
me reak that plate when we arrived downstairs?"
"Can you learn how to e a Metamorphmagus?" Harry asked her, straightening up, completely
forgetting aout packing.
Tonks chuckled.
"Bet you wouldn’t mind hiding that scar sometimes, eh?"
Her eyes found the lightning-shaped scar on Harry’s forehead.
"No, I wouldn’t mind," Harry mumled, turning away. He did not like people staring at his scar.
"Well, you’ll have to learn the hard way, I’m afraid," said Tonks. "Metamorphmagi are really
rare, they’re orn, not made. Most wizards need to use a wand, or potions, to change their
appearance. But we’ve got to get going, Harry, we’re supposed to e packing," she added
guiltily, looking around at all the mess on the floor.
"Oh -- yeah," said Harry, graing a few more ooks.
"Don’t e stupid, it’ll e much quicker if I - pack!" cried Tonks, waving her wand in a long,
sweeping movement over the floor.
Books, clothes, telescope and scales all soared into the air and flew pell-mell into the trunk.
"It’s not very neat," said Tonks, walking over to t he trunk and looking down at the jumle inside.
"My mums got this knack of getting stuff to fit itself in neatly - she even gets the socks to fold
themselves - ut I’ve never mastered how she does it - it’s a kind of flick -" She flicked her wand
hopefully.
One of Harry’s socks gave a feele sort of wiggle and flopped ack on top of the mess in the
trunk.
"Ah, well," said Tonks, slamming the trunk’s lid shut, "at least it’s all in. That could do with a it of cleaning, too." She pointed her wand at Hedwig’s cage. "Scourgify." A few feathers and
droppings vanished. "Well, that’s a it etter - I’ve never quite got the hang of these householdy
sort of spells. Right - got everything? Cauldron? Broom? Wow! - A Fireolt!"
Her eyes widened as they fell on the roomstick in Harry’s right hand it was his pride and joy, a
gift from Sirius, an international-standard roomstick.
"And I’m still riding a Comet Two Sixty" said Tonks enviously. "Ah well... wand still in your
jeans? Both uttocks still on? Okay, let’s go. Locomotor trunk."
Harry’s trunk rose a few inches into the air. Holding her wand like a conductor’s aton, Tonks
made the trunk hover across the room and out of the door ahead of them, Hedwig’s cage in her
left hand. Harry followed her down the stairs carrying his roomstick.
Back in the kitchen Moody had replaced his eye, which was spinning so fast after its cleaning it
made Harry feel sick to look at it. Kingsley Shackleolt and Sturgis Podmore were examining
the microwave and Hestia Jones was laughing at a potato peeler she had come across while
rummaging in the drawers. Lupin was sealing a letter addressed to the Dursleys.
"Excellent," said Lupin, looking up as Tonks and Harry entered. "We’ve got aout a minute, I
think. We should proaly get out into the garden so we’re ready. Harry, I’ve left a letter telling
your aunt and uncle not to worry -"
"They won’t," said Harry.
"- that you’re safe -"
"That’ll just depress them."
"- and you’ll see them next summer."
"Do I have to?"
Lupin smiled ut made no answer.
"Come here, oy," said Moody gruffly, eckoning Harry towards him with his wand. "I need to
Disillusion you."
"You need to what?" said Harry nervously.
"Disillusionment Charm," said Moody, raising his wand. "Lupin says you’ve got an Invisiility
Cloak, ut it won’t stay on while we’re flying; this’ll disguise you etter. Here you go -
He rapped him hard on the top of the head and Harry felt a curious sensation as though Moody
had just smashed an egg there; cold trickles seemed to e running down his ody from the point
the wand had struck.
"Nice one, Mad-Eye," said Tonks appreciatively, staring at Harry’s midriff.
Harry looked down at his ody, or rather, what had een his ody, for it didn’t look anything like
his any more. It was not invisile; it had simply taken on the exact color and texture of the
kitchen unit ehind him. He seemed to have ecome a human chameleon.
"Come on," said Moody, unlocking the ack door with his wand.
They all stepped outside on to Uncle Vernon’s eautifully kept lawn.
"Clear night," grunted Moody, his magical eye scanning the heavens. "Could’ve done with a it
more cloud cover. Right, you," he arked at Harry," we’re going to e flying in close formation.
Tonks’ll e right in front of you, keep close on her tail. Lupin’ll e covering you from elow I’m
going to e ehind you. The rest’ll e circling us. We don’t reak ranks for anything, got me? If
one of us is killed -
"Is that likely?" Harry asked apprehensively, ut Moody ignored him.
"- the others keep flying, don’t stop, don’t reak ranks. If they take out all of us and you survive,
Harry, the rear guard are standing y to take over; keep flying east and they’ll join you."
"Stop eing so cheerful, Mad-Eye, he’ll think we’re not taking this seriously" said Tonks, as she
strapped Harry’s trunk and Hedwig’s cage into a harness hanging from her room.
"I’m just telling the oy the plan," growled Moody. "Our jos to deliver him safely to
Headquarters and if we die in the attempt -"
"No one’s going to die," said Kingsley Shackleolt in his deep, calming voice.
"Mount your rooms, that’s the first signal!" said Lupin sharply pointing into the sky.
Far, far aove them, a shower of right red sparks had flared among the stars, Harry recognized
them at once as wand sparks. He swung his right leg over his Fireolt, gripped its handle tightly
and felt it virating very slightly, as though it was as keen as he was to e up in the air once
more.
"Second signal, let’s go!" said Lupin loudly as more sparks, green this time, exploded high aove them.
Harry kicked off hard from the ground. The cool night air rushed through his hair as the neat
square gardens of Privet Drive fell away, shrinking rapidly into a patchwork of dark greens and
lacks, and every thought of the Ministry hearing was swept from his mind as though the rush of
air had lown it out of his head. He felt as though his heart was going to explode with pleasure;
he was flying again, flying away from Privet Drive as he’d een fantasizing aout all summer, he
was going home... for a few glorious moments, all his prolems seemed to recede to nothing,
insignificant in the vast, starry sky.
"Hard left, hard left, there’s a Muggle looking up!" shouted Moody from ehind him. Tonks
swerved and Harry followed her, watching his trunk swinging wildly eneath her room. "We
need more height... give it another quarter of a mile!"
Harry’s eyes watered in the chill as they soared upwards; he could see nothing elow now ut
tiny pinpricks of light that were car headlights and streetlamps. Two of those tiny lights might
elong to Uncle Vernon’s car... the Dursleys would e heading ack to their empty house right
now, full of rage aout the non-existent Lawn Competition... and Harry laughed aloud at the
thought, though his voice was drowned y the flapping roes of the others, the creaking of the
harness holding his trunk and the cage, and the whoosh of the wind in their ears as they sped
through the air. He had not felt this alive in a month, or this happy.
"Bearing south!" shouted Mad-Eye. "’Town ahead!"
They soared right to avoid passing directly over the glittering spider’s we of lights elow.
"Bear southeast and keep climing, there’s some low cloud ahead we can lose ourselves in!"
called Moody.
"We’re not going through clouds!" shouted Tonks angrily, "we’ll get soaked, Mad-Eye!"
Harry was relieved to hear her say this; his hands were growing num on the Fireolt’s handle.
He wished he had thought to put on a coat; he was starting to shiver.
They altered their course every now and then according to Mad-Eyes instructions. Harry’s eyes
were screwed up against the rush of icy wind that was starting to make his ears ache; he could
rememer eing this cold on a room only once efore, during the Quidditch match against
Hufflepuff in his third year, which had taken place in a storm. The guard around him was
circling continuously like giant irds of prey. Harry lost track of time. He wondered how long
they had een flying, it felt like an hour at least.
"Turning southwest!" yelled Moody "We want to avoid the motorway!"
Harry was now so chilled he thought longingly of the snug, dry interiors of the cars streaming
along elow, then, even more longingly, of traveling y Floo powder; it might e uncomfortale
to spin around in fireplaces ut it was at least warm in the flames... Kingsley Shackleolt
swooped around him, ald pate and earring gleaming slightly in the moonlight... now Emmeline
Vance was on his right, her wand out, her head turning left and right... then she, too, swooped
over him, to e replaced y Sturgis Podmore...
"We ought to doule ack for a it, just to make sure we’re not eing followed!" Moody shouted.
"ARE YOU MAD, MAD-EYE"‘ Tonks screamed from the front. "We’re all frozen to our
rooms! If we keep going off-course we’re not going to get there until next week! Besides, we’re
nearly there now!"
"Time to start the descent!" came Lupin’s voice. "Follow Tonks, Harry!"
Harry followed Tonks into a dive. They were heading for the largest collection of lights he had
yet seen, a huge, sprawling crisscrossing mass, glittering in lines and grids, interspersed with
patches of deepest lack. Lower and lower they flew, until Harry could see individual headlights
and streetlamps, chimneys and television aerials. He wanted to reach the ground very much,
though he felt sure someone would have to unfreeze him from his room.
"Here we go!" called Tonks, and a few seconds later she had landed.
Harry touched down right ehind her and dismounted on a patch of unkempt grass in the middle
of a small square. Tonks was already unuckling Harry’s trunk. Shivering, Harry looked around.
The grimy fronts of the surrounding houses were not welcoming; some of them had roken
windows, glimmering dully in the light fro the streetlamps, paint was peeling from many of the
doors and heaps of ruish lay outside several sets of front steps.
"Where are we?" Harry asked, ut Lupin said quietly, "In a minute."
Moody was rummaging in his cloak, his gnarled hands clumsy with cold.
"Got it," he muttered, raising what looked like a silver cigarette lighter into the air and clicking it.
The nearest streetlamp went out with a pop. He clicked the unlighter again; the next lamp went
out; he kept clicking until every lamp in the square was extinguished and the only remaining
light came from curtained windows and the sickle moon overhead.
"Borrowed it from Dumledore," growled Moody, pocketing the Put-Outer. "That’ll take care of
any Muggles looking out of the window, see? Now come on, quick."
He took Harry y the arm and led him from the patch of grass, across the road and on to the
pavement; Lupin and Tonks followed, carrying Harry’s trunk etween them, the rest of the
guard, all with their wands out, flanking them.
The muffled pounding of a stereo was coming from an upper window in the nearest house. A
pungent smell of rotting ruish came from the pile of ulging in-ags just inside the roken
gate.
"Here," Moody muttered, thrusting a piece of parchment towards Harry’s Disillusioned hand and
holding his lit wand close to it, so as to illuminate the writing. "Read quickly and memories."
Harry looked down at the piece of paper. The narrow handwriting was vaguely familiar. It said:
The Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix may e found at numer twelve, Grimmauld
Place, London.
CHAPTER FOUR
Numer Twelve, Grimmauld Place
"What’s the Order of the -?" Harry egan.
"Not here, oy!" snarled Moody. "Wait till we’re inside!"
He pulled the piece of parchment out of Harry’s hand and set fire to it with his wand-tip. As the
message curled into flames and floated to the ground, Harry looked around at the houses again.
They were standing outside numer eleven; he looked to the left and saw numer ten; to the
right, however, was numer thirteen.
"But where’s -?"
"Think aout what you’ve just memorized," said Lupin quietly.
Harry thought, and no sooner had he reached the part aout numer twelve, Grimmauld Place,
than a attered door emerged out of nowhere etween numers eleven and thirteen, followed
swiftly y dirty walls and grimy windows. It was as though an extra house had inflated, pushing
those on either side out of its way. Harry gaped at it. The stereo in numer eleven thudded on.
Apparently the Muggles inside hadn’t felt anything.
"Come on, hurry," growled Moody, prodding Harry in the ack.
Harry walked up the worn stone steps, staring at the newly materialized door. Its lack paint was
shay and scratched. The silver doorknocker was in the form of a twisted serpent. There was no
keyhole or letterox.
Lupin pulled out his wand and tapped the door once. Harry heard many loud, metallic clicks and
what sounded like the clatter of a chain. The door creaked open.
"Get in quick, Harry," Lupin whispered, "ut don’t go far inside and don’t touch anything."
Harry stepped over the threshold into the almost total darkness of the hall. He could smell damp,
dust and a sweetish, rotting smell; the place had the feeling of a derelict uilding. He looked over
his shoulder and saw the others filing in ehind him, Lupin and Tonks carrying his trunk and
Hedwig’s cage. Moody was standing on the top step releasing the alls of light the Put-Outer had
stolen from the streetlamps; they flew ack to their uls and the square glowed momentarily
with orange light efore Moody limped inside and closed the front door, so that the darkness in
the hall ecame complete.
"Here -"
He rapped Harry hard over the head with his wand; Harry felt as though something hot was
trickling down his ack this time and knew that the Disillusionment Charm must have lifted.
"Now stay still, everyone, while I give us a it of light in here," Moody whispered.
The others’ hushed voices were giving Harry an odd feeling of foreoding; it was as though they
had just entered the house of a dying person. He heard a soft hissing noise and then old-fashioned gas lamps sputtered into life all along the walls, casting a flickering insustantial light
over the peeling wallpaper and threadare carpet of a long, gloomy hallway, where a cowey
chandelier glimmered overhead and age-lackened portraits hung crooked on the walls. Harry
heard something scuttling ehind the aseoard. Both the chandelier and the candelara on a
rickety tale neary were shaped like serpents.
There were hurried footsteps and Ron’s mother, Mrs. Weasley, emerged from a door at the far
end of the hall. She was eaming in welcome as she hurried towards them, though Harry noticed
that she was rather thinner and paler than she had een last time he had seen her.
"Oh, Harry, it’s lovely to see you!" she whispered, pulling him into a ri-cracking hug efore
holding him at arm’s length and examining him critically. "You’re looking peaky; you need
feeding up, ut you’ll have to wait a it for dinner, I’m afraid."
She turned to the gang of wizards ehind him and whispered urgently, "He’s just arrived, the
meetings started."
The wizards ehind Harry all made noises of interest and excitement and egan filing past him
towards the door through which Mrs. Weasley had just come. Harry made to follow Lupin, ut
Mrs. Weasley held him ack.
"No, Harry, the meetings only for memers of the Order. Ron and Hermione are upstairs, you
can wait with them until the meetings over, then we’ll have dinner. And keep your voice down in
the hall," she added in an urgent whisper.
"Why?"
"I don’t want anything to wake up."
"What d’you -?"
"I’ll explain later, I’ve got to hurry, I’m supposed to e at the meeting - I’ll just show you where
you’re sleeping."
Pressing her finger to her lips, she led him on tiptoe past a pair of long, moth-eaten curtains,
ehind which Harry supposed there must e another door, and after skirting a large umrella
stand that looked as though it had een made from a severed troll’s leg they started up the dark
staircase, passing a row of shrunken heads mounted on plaques on the wall. A closer look
showed Harry that the heads elonged to house-elves. All of them had the same rather snout-like
nose.
Harry’s ewilderment deepened with every step he took. What on earth were they doing in a
house that looked as though it elonged to the darkest of wizards?
"Mrs. Weasley, why -?"
"Ron and Hermione will explain everything, dear, I’ve really got to dash," Mrs. Weasley
whispered distractedly. "There -" they had reached the second landing, "- you’re the door on the
right. I’ll call you when it’s over."
And she hurried off downstairs again.
Harry crossed the dingy landing, turned the edroom doorkno, which was shaped like a serpents
head, and opened the door.
He caught a rief glimpse of a gloomy high-ceilinged, twin-edded room; then there was a loud
twittering noise, followed y an even louder shriek, and his vision was completely oscured y a
large quantity of very ushy hair. Hermione had thrown herself on to him in a hug that nearly
knocked him flat, while Ron’s tiny owl, Pigwidgeon, zoomed excitedly round and round their
heads.
"HARRY! Ron, he’s here, Harry’s here! We didn’t hear you arrive! Oh, how are you? Are you all right? Have you een furious with us? I et you have, I know our letters were useless - ut we
couldn’t tell you anything, Dumledore made us swear we wouldn’t, oh, we’ve got so much to
tell you, and you’ve got things to tell us - the Dementors! When we heard - and that Ministry
hearing - it’s just outrageous, I’ve looked it all up, they can’t expel you, they just can’t, there’s
provision in the Decree for the Reasonale Restriction of Underage Sorcery for the use of magic
in life-threatening situations -"
"Let him reathe, Hermione," said Ron, grinning as he closed the door ehind Harry. He seemed
to have grown several more inches during their month apart, making him taller and more gangly
looking than ever, though the long nose, right red hair and freckles were the same.
Still eaming, Hermione let go of Harry, ut efore she could say another word there was a soft
whooshing sound and something white soared from the top of a dark wardroe and landed gently
on Harry’s shoulder.
"Hedwig!"
The snowy owl clicked her eak and niled his ear affectionately as Harry stroked her feathers.
"She’s een in a right state," said Ron. "Pecked us half to death when she rought your last
letters, look at this -"
He showed Harry the index finger of his right hand, which sported a half-healed ut clearly deep
cut.
"Oh, yeah," Harry said. "Sorry aout that, ut I wanted answers, you know -"
"We wanted to give them to you, mate," said Ron. "Hermione was going spare, she kept saying
you’d do something stupid if you were stuck all on your own without news, ut Dumledore
made us -"
"- swear not to tell me," said Harry. "Yeah, Hermione’s already said."
The warm glow that had flared inside him at the sight of his two est friends was extinguished as
something icy flooded the pit of his stomach. All of a sudden - after yearning to see them for a
solid month -- he felt he would rather Ron and Hermione left him alone.
There was a strained silence in which Harry stroked Hedwig automatically, not looking at either
of the others.
"He seemed to think it was est," said Hermione rather reathlessly. "Dumledore, I mean."
"Right," said Harry. He noticed that her hands, too, ore the marks of Hedwigs eak and found
that he was not at all sorry.
"I think he thought you were safest with the Muggles -" Ron egan.
"Yeah?" said Harry, raising his eyerows. "Have either of you een attacked y Dementors this
summer?"
"Well, no-ut that’s why he’s had people from the Order of the Phoenix tailing you all the time-"
Harry felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had just missed a step going downstairs. So
everyone had known he was eing followed, except him.
"Didn’t work that well, though, did it?" said Harry, doing his utmost to keep his voice even.
"Had to look after myself after all, didn’t I?"
"He was so angry," said Hermione, in an almost awestruck voice. "Dumledore. We saw him.
When he found out Mundungus had left efore his shift had ended. He was scary."
"Well, I’m glad he left," Harry said coldly. "If he hadn’t, I wouldn’t have done magic and
Dumledore would proaly have left me at Privet Drive all summer."
"Aren’t you... aren’t you worried aout the Ministry of Magic hearing?" said Hermione quietly.
"No," Harry lied defiantly. He walked away from them, looking around, with Hedwig nestled
contentedly on his shoulder, ut this room was not likely to raise his spirits. It was dank and
dark. A lank stretch of canvas in an ornate picture frame was all that relieved the areness of
the peeling walls, and as Harry passed it he thought he heard someone, who was lurking out of
sight, snigger.
"So why’s Dumledore een so keen to keep me in the dark?" Harry asked, still trying hard to
keep his voice casual. "Did you - er - other to ask him at all?"
He glanced up just in time to see them exchanging a look that told him he was ehaving just as
they had feared he would. It did nothing to improve his temper.
"We told Dumledore we wanted to tell you what was going on," said Ron. "We did, mate. But
he’s really usy now, we’ve only seen him twice since we came here and he didn’t have much
time, he just made us swear not to tell you important stuff when we wrote, he said the owls might
e intercepted."
"He could still’ve kept me informed if he’d wanted to," Harry said shortly. "You’re not telling me he doesn’t know ways to send messages without owls."
Hermione glanced at Ron and then said, "I thought that, too. But he didn’t want you to
know anything."
"Maye he thinks I can’t e trusted," said Harry, watching their expressions.
"Don’t e thick," said Ron, looking highly disconcerted.
"Or that I can’t take care of myself."
"Of course he doesn’t think that!" said Hermione anxiously.
"So how come I have to stay at the Dursleys’ while you two get to join in everything that’s going
on here?" said Harry, the words tumling over one another in a rush, his voice growing louder
with every word. "How come you two are allowed to know everything that’s going on?"
"We’re not!" Ron interrupted. "Mum won’t let us near the meetings, she says we’re too young -"
But efore he knew it, Harry was shouting.
"SO YOU HAVEN’T BEEN IN THE MEETINGS, BIG DEAL! YOU’VE STILL BEEN HERE,
HAVEN’T YOU? YOU’VE STILL BEEN TOGETHER! ME, I’VE BEEN STUCK AT THE
DURSLEYS’ FOR A MONTH! AND I’VE HANDLED MORE THAN YOU TWO’VE EVER
MANAGED AND DUMBLEDORE KNOWS IT - WHO SAVED THE SORCERER’S
STONE? WHO GOT RID OF RIDDLE? WHO SAVED BOTH YOUR SKINS FROM THE
DEMENTORS?"
Every itter and resentful thought Harry had had in the past month was pouring out of him: his
frustration at the lack of news, the hurt that they had all een together without him, his fury at
eing followed and not told aout it - all the feelings he was half-ashamed of finally urst their
oundaries. Hedwig took fright at the noise and soared off to the top of the wardroe again;
Pigwidgeon twittered in alarm and zoomed even faster around their heads.
"WHO HAD TO GET PAST DRAGONS AND SPHINXES AND EVERY OTHER FOUL
THING LAST YEAR? WHO SAW HIM COME BACK? WHO HAD TO ESCAPE FROM
HIM? ME!"
Ron was standing there with his mouth half-open, clearly stunned and at a loss for anything to
say, while Hermione looked on the verge of tears.
"BUT WHY SHOULD I KNOW WHAT’S GOING ON? WHY SHOULD ANYONE BOTHER
TO TELL ME WHAT’S BEEN HAPPENING?"
"Harry, we wanted to tell you, we really did -" Hermione egan.
"CAN’T’VE WANTED TO THAT MUCH, CAN YOU, OR YOU’D HAVE SENT ME AN
OWL, BUT DUMBLEDORE MADEYOU SWEAR-"
"Well, he did -"
"FOUR WEEKS I’VE BEEN STUCK IN PRIVET DRIVE, NICKING PAPERS OUT OF BINS
TO TRY AND FIND OUT WHAT’S BEEN GOING ON -"
"We wanted to -"
"I SUPPOSE YOU’VE BEEN HAVING A REAL LAUGH, HAVEN’T YOU, ALL HOLED UP
HERE TOGETHER -"
"No, honest -"
"Harry we’re really sorry!" said Hermione desperately, her eyes now sparkling with tears. "You’re asolutely right, Harry - I’d e furious if it was me!"
Harry glared at her, still reathing deeply, then turned away from them again, pacing up and
down. Hedwig hooted glumly from the top of the wardroe. There was a long pause, roken only
y the mournful creak of the flooroards elow Harry’s feet.
"What is this place, anyway?" he shot at Ron and Hermione.
"Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix," said Ron at once.
"Is anyone going to other telling me what the Order of the Phoenix -?"
"It’s a secret society," said Hermione quickly. "Dumledore’s in charge, he founded it. It’s the
people who fought against You-Know-Who last time."
"Who’s in it?" said Harry, coming to a halt with his hands in his pockets.
"Quite a few people -"
"We’ve met aout twenty of them," said Ron, "ut we think there are more."
Harry glared at them.
"Well?" he demanded, looking from one to the other.
"Er," said Ron. "Well what?"
"Voldemort!" said Harry furiously, and oth Ron and Hermione winced. "What’s happening?
What’s he up to? Where is he? What are we doing to stop him?"
"We’ve told you, the Order don’t let us in on their meetings," said Hermione nervously. "So we
don’t know the details - ut we’ve got a general idea," she added hastily, seeing the look on
Harry’s face.
"Fred and George have invented Extendale Ears, see," said Ron. "They’re really useful."
"Extendale -?"
"Ears, yeah. Only we’ve had to stop using them lately ecause Mum found out and went erserk.
Fred and George had to hide them all to stop Mum inning them. But we got a good it of use
out of them efore Mum realized what was going on. We know some of the Order are following
known Death Eaters, keeping tas on them, you know -"
"Some of them are working on recruiting more people to the Order -" said Hermione.
"And some of them are standing guard over something," said Ron. "They’re always talking aout guard duty."
"Couldn’t have een me, could it?" said Harry sarcastically.
"Oh, yeah," said Ron, with a look of dawning comprehension.
Harry snorted. He walked around the room again, looking anywhere ut at Ron and Hermione.
"So, what have you two een doing, if you’re not allowed in meetings?" he demanded. "You said you’d een usy"‘
"We have," said Hermione quickly. "We’ve een decontaminating this house, it’s een empty for ages and stuff’s een reeding in here. We’ve managed to clean out the kitchen, most of the
edrooms and I think we’re doing the drawing room tomo-"
With two loud cracks, Fred and George, Ron’s elder twin rothers, had materialized out of thin
air in the middle of the room. Pigwidgeon twittered more wildly than ever and zoomed off to join
Hedwig on top of the wardroe.
"Stop doing that!" Hermione said weakly to the twins, who were as vividly red-haired as Ron,
though stockier and slightly shorter.
"Hello, Harry," said George, eaming at him. "We thought we heard your dulcet tones."
"You don’t want to ottle up your anger like that, Harry, let it all out," said Fred, also eaming.
"There might e a couple of people fifty miles away who didn’t hear you."
"You two passed your Apparation tests, then?" asked Harry grumpily.
"With distinction," said Fred, who was holding what looked like a piece of very long, flesh colored string.
"It would have taken you aout thirty seconds longer to walk down the stairs," said Ron.
"Time is Galleons, little rother" said Fred. "Anyway, Harry, you’re interfering with reception.
Extendale Ears," he added in response to Harry’s raised eyerows, and held up the string which
Harry now saw was trailing out on to the landing. "We’re trying to hear what’s going on
downstairs."
"You want to e careful," said Ron, staring at the Ear, "if Mum sees one of them again..."
"It’s worth the risk, that’s a major meeting they’re having," said Fred.
The door opened and a long mane of red hair appeared.
"Oh, hello, Harry!" said Ron’s younger sister, Ginny, rightly. "I thought I heard your voice."
Turning to Fred and George, she said, "It’s no-go with the Extendale Ears, she’s gone and put
an Imperturale Charm on the kitchen door."
"How d’you know?" said George, looking crestfallen.
"Tonks told me how to find out," said Ginny. "You just chuck stuff at the door and if it can’t
make contact the door’s een Impertured. I’ve een flicking Dungoms at it from the top of
the stairs and they just soar away from it, so there’s no way the Extendale Ears will e ale to
get under the gap."
Fred heaved a deep sigh.
"Shame. I really fancied finding out what old Snape’s een up to."
"Snape!" said Harry quickly. "Is he here?"
"Yeah," said George, carefully closing the door and sitting down on one of the eds; Fred and
Ginny followed. "Giving a report. Top secret."
"Git," said Fred idly.
"He’s on our side now," said Hermione reprovingly.
Ron snorted. "Doesn’t stop him eing a git. The way he looks at us when he sees us."
"Bill doesn’t like him, either," said Ginny, as though that settled the matter.
Harry was not sure his anger had aated yet; ut his thirst for information was now overcoming
his urge to keep shouting. He sank on to the ed opposite the others.
"Is Bill here?" he asked. "I thought he was working in Egypt?"
"He applied for a desk jo so he could come home and work for the Order," said Fred. "He says
he misses the toms, ut;" he smirked, "there are compensations."
"What d’you mean?"
"Rememer old Fleur Delacour?" said George. "She’s got a jo at Gringotts to eempwve ‘er
Eeenglish -"
"And Bill’s een giving her a lot of private lessons," sniggered Fred.
"Charlie’s in the Order, too," said George, "ut he’s still in Romania. Dumledore wants as many foreign wizards rought in as possile, so Charlie’s trying to make contacts on his days off."
"Couldn’t Percy do that?" Harry asked. The last he had heard, the third Weasley rother was
working in the Department of International Magical Co-operation at the Ministry of Magic.
At Harry’s words, all the Weasleys and Hermione exchanged darkly significant looks.
"Whatever you do, don’t mention Percy in front of Mum and Dad," Ron told Harry in a tense
voice.
"Why not?"
"Because every time Percy’s name’s mentioned, Dad reaks whatever he’s holding and Mum
starts crying," Fred said.
"It’s een awful," said Ginny sadly.
"I think we’re well shut of him," said George, with an uncharacteristically ugly look on his face.
"What’s happened?" Harry said.
"Percy and Dad had a row," said Fred. "I’ve never seen Dad row with anyone like that. It’s
normally Mum who shouts."
"It was the first week ack after term ended," said Ron. "We were aout to come and join the
Order. Percy came home and told us he’d een promoted."
"You’re kidding?" said Harry.
Though he knew perfectly well that Percy was highly amitious, Harry’s impression was that
Percy had not made a great success of his first jo at the Ministry of Magic. Percy had
committed the fairly large oversight of failing to notice that his oss was eing controlled y
Lord Voldemort (not that the Ministry had elieved it - they all thought Mr. Crouch had gone
mad).
"Yeah, we were all surprised," said George, "ecause Percy got into a load of troule aout
Crouch, there was an inquiry and everything. They said Percy ought to have realized Crouch was
off his rocker and informed a superior. But you know Percy, Crouch left him in charge, he
wasn’t going to complain."
"So how come they promoted him?"
"That’s exactly what we wondered," said Ron, who see med very keen to keep normal
conversation going now that Harry had stopped yelling. "He came home really pleased with
himself - even more pleased than usual, if you can imagine that - and told Dad he’d een offered
a position in Fudge’s own office. A really good one for someone only a year out of Hogwarts:
Junior Assistant to the Minister. He expected Dad to e all impressed, I think."
"Only Dad wasn’t," said Fred grimly.
"Why not?" said Harry.
"Well, apparently Fudge has een storming round the Ministry checking that noody’s having
any contact with Dumledore," said George.
"Dumledore’s name is mud with the Ministry these days, see," said Fred. "They all think he’s
just making troule saying You-Know-Who’s ack."
"Dad says Fudge has made it clear that anyone who’s in league with Dumledore can clear out
their desks," said George.
"Troule is, Fudge suspects Dad, he knows he’s friendly with Dumledore, and he’s always
thought Dad’s a it of a weirdo ecause of his Muggle osession."
"But what’s that got to do with Percy?" asked Harry, confused.
"I’m coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants Percy in his office ecause he wants to use
him to spy on the family - and Dumledore."
Harry let out a low whistle.
"Bet Percy loved that."
Ron laughed in a hollow sort of way.
"He went completely erserk. He said - well, he said loads of terrile stuff. He said he’s een
having to struggle against Dad’s lousy reputation ever since he joined the Ministry and that
Dad’s got no amition and that’s why we’ve always een - you know - not had a lot of money, I
mean -"
"What?" said Harry in diselief, as Ginny made a noise like an angry cat.
"I know," said Ron in a low voice. "And it got worse. He said Dad was an idiot to run around
with Dumledore, that Dumledore was heading for ig troule and Dad was going to go down
with him, and that he - Percy - knew where his loyalty lay and it was with the Ministry. And if
Mum and Dad were going to ecome traitors to the Ministry he was going to make sure everyone
knew he didn’t elong to our family any more. And he packed his ags the same night and left.
He’s living here in London now."
Harry swore under his reath. He had always liked Percy least of Ron’s rothers, ut he had
never imagined he would say such things to Mr. Weasley.
"Mum’s een in a right state," said Ron dully. "You know - crying and stuff. She came up to
London to try and talk to Percy ut he slammed the door in her face. I dunno what he does if he
meets Dad at work - ignores him, I s’pose."
"But Percy must know Voldemort’s ack," said Harry s lowly. "He’s not stupid, he must know
your mum and dad wouldn’t risk everything without proof."
"Yeah, well, your name got dragged into the row," said Ron, shooting Harry a furtive look.
"Percy said the only evidence was your word and... I dunno... he didn’t think it was good
enough."
"Percy takes the Daily Prophet seriously," said Hermione tartly, and the others all nodded.
"What are you talking aout?" Harry asked, looking around at them all. They were all regarding
him warily.
"Haven’t - haven’t you een getting the Daily Prophet!" Hermione asked nervously.
"Yeah, I have!" said Harry.
"Have you - er - een reading it thoroughly?" Hermione asked, still more anxiously.
"Not cover to cover," said Harry defensively. "If they were going to report anything aout
Voldemort it would e headline news, wouldn’t it?"
The others flinched at the sound of the name. Hermione hurried on, "Well, you’d need to read it
cover to cover to pick it up, ut they - um - they mention you a couple of times a week."
"But I’d have seen -"
"Not if you’ve only een reading the front page, you wouldn’t," said Hermione, shaking her
head. "I’m not talking aout ig articles. They just slip you in, like you’re a standing joke."
"What d’you -?"
"It’s quite nasty, actually," said Hermione in a voice of forced calm. "They’re just uilding on
Rita’s stuff."
"But she’s not writing for them any more, is she?"
"Oh, no, she’s kept her promise - not that she’s got any choice," Hermione added with
satisfaction. "But she laid the foundation for what they’re trying to do now."
"Which is what?" said Harry impatiently.
"Okay, you know she wrote that you were collapsing all over the place and saying your scar was
hurting and all that?"
"Yeah," said Harry, who was not likely to forget Rita Skeeters stories aout him in a hurry.
"Well, they’re writing aout you as though you’re this deluded, attention-seeking person who
thinks he’s a great tragic hero or something," said Hermione, very fast, as though it would e less
unpleasant for Harry to hear these facts quickly. "They keep slipping in snide comments aout
you. If some far-fetched story appears, they say something like, ‘tale worthy of Harry Potter’, and if anyone has a funny accident or anything it’s, ‘lets hope he hasn’t got a scar on his forehead or we’ll e asked to worship him next -"
"I don’t want anyone to worship -" Harry egan hotly.
"I know you don’t," said Hermione quickly, looking frightened. "I know, Harry. But you see what they’re doing? They want to turn you into someone noody will elieve. Fudge is ehind it, I’ll et anything. They want wizards on the street to think you’re just some stupid oy who’s a it of a joke, who tells ridiculous tall stories ecause he loves eing famous and wants to keep it
going."
"I didn’t ask - I didn’t want - Voldemort killed my parents!" Harry spluttered. "I got famous
ecause he murdered my family ut couldn’t kill me! Who wants to e famous for that? Don’t
they think I’d rather it’d never -"
"We know, Harry," said Ginny earnestly.
"And of course, they didn’t report a word aout the Dementors attacking you," said Hermione.
"Someone’s told them to keep that quiet. That should’ve een a really ig story, out-of-control
Dementors. They haven’t even reported that you roke the International Statute of Secrecy. We
thought they would, it would tie in so well with this image of you as some stupid show-off. We
think they’re iding their time until you’re expelled, then they’re really going to go to town - I
mean, if you’re expelled, oviously," she went on hastily. "You really shouldn’t e, not if they
aide y their own laws, there’s no case against you."
They were ack on the hearing and Harry did not want to think aout that. He cast around for
another change of suject, ut was saved the necessity of finding one y the sound of footsteps
coming up the stairs.
"Uh oh."
Fred gave the Extendale Ear a hearty tug; there was another loud crack and he and George
vanished. Seconds later, Mrs. Weasley appeared in the edroom doorway.
"The meeting’s over, you can come down and have dinner now. Everyone’s dying to see you,
Harry. And who’s left all those Dungoms outside the kitchen door?"
"Crookshanks," said Ginny unlushingly. "He loves playing with them."
"Oh," said Mrs. Weasley, "I thought it might have een Kreacher, he keeps doing odd things like
that. Now don’t forget to keep your voices down in the hall. Ginny, your hands are filthy, what
have you een doing? Go and wash them efore dinner, please."
Ginny grimaced at the others and followed her mother out of the room, leaving Harry alone with
Ron and Hermione. Both of them were watching him apprehensively, as though they feared he
would start shouting again now that everyone else had gone. The sight of them looking so
nervous made him feel slightly ashamed.
"Look..." he muttered, ut Ron shook his head, and Hermione said quietly, "We knew you’d e
angry, Harry, we really don’t lame you, ut you’ve got to understand, we did try to persuade
Dumledore -"
"Yeah, I know," said Harry shortly.
He cast around for a topic that didn’t involve his headmaster, ecause the very thought of
Dumledore made Harry’s insides urn with anger again.
"Who’s Kreacher?" he asked.
"The house-elf who lives here," said Ron. "Nutter. Never met one like him."
Hermione frowned at Ron.
"He’s not a nutter, Ron."
"His life’s amition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a plaque just like his mother," said Ron irritaly. "Is that normal, Hermione?"
"Well - well, if he is a it strange, it’s not his fault."
Ron rolled his eyes at Harry.
"Hermione still hasn’t given up on SPEW -"
"It’s not SPEW!" said Hermione heatedly. "It’s the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare.
And it’s not just me, Dumledore says we should e kind to Kreacher too."
"Yeah, yeah," said Ron. "C’mon, I’m starving."
He led the way out of the door and on to the landing, ut efore they could descend the stairs -
"Hold it!" Ron reathed, flinging out an arm to stop Harry and Hermione walking any further.
"They’re still in the hall, we might e ale to hear something."
The three of them looked cautiously over the anisters. The gloomy hallway elow was packed
with witches and wizards, including all of Harry’s guard. They were whispering excitedly
together. In the very center of the group Harry saw the dark, greasy-haired head and prominent
nose of his least favorite teacher at Hogwarts, Professor Snape. Harry leaned further over the
anisters. He was very interested in what Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix...
A thin piece of flesh-colored string descended in front of Harry’s eyes. Looking up, he saw Fred
and George on the landing aove, cautiously lowering the Extendale Ear towards the dark knot
of people elow. A moment later, however, they all egan to move towards the front door and
out of sight.
"Damnit," Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted t he Extendale Ear ack up again.
They heard the front door open, then close.
"Snape never eats here," Ron told Harry quietly. "Thank God. C’mon."
"And don’t forget to keep your voice down in the hall, Harry," Hermione whispered.
As they passed the row of house-elf heads on the wall, they saw Lupin, Mrs. Weasley and Tonks
at the front door, magically sealing its many locks and olts ehind those who had just left.
"We’re eating down in the kitchen," Mrs. Weasley whispered, meeting them at the ottom of the
stairs. "Harry, dear, if you’ll just tiptoe across the hall, it’s through this door here -"
CRASH.
"Tonks!" cried Mrs. Weasley in exasperation, turning to look ehind her.
"I’m sorry!" wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the floor. "It’s that stupid umrella stand, that’s the second time I’ve tripped over -"
But the rest of her words were drowned y a horrile, ear-splitting, lood-curdling screech.
The moth-eaten velvet curtains Harry had passed earlier had flown apart, ut there was no door
ehind them. For a split second, Harry thought he was looking through a window, a window
ehind which an old woman in a lack cap was screaming and screaming as though she were
eing tortured - then he realized it was simply a life-size portrait, ut the most realiztic, and the
most unpleasant, he had ever seen in his life.
The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, the yellowing skin of her face stretched taut
as she screamed; and all along the hall ehind them, the other portraits awoke and egan to yell,
too, so that Harry actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and clapped his hands over his ears.
Lupin and Mrs. Weasley darted forward and tried to tug the curtains shut over the old woman,
ut they would not close and she screeched louder than ever, randishing clawed hands as
though trying to tear at their faces.
"Filth! Scum! By-products of dirt and vileness! Half-reeds, mutants, freaks, egone from this
place! How dare you efoul the house of my fathers -"
Tonks apologized over and over again, dragging the huge, heavy troll’s leg ack off the floor;
Mrs. Weasley aandoned the attempt to close the curtains and hurried up and down the hall,
stunning all the other portraits with her wand; and a man with long lack hair came charging out
of a door facing Harry.
"Shut up, you horrile old hag, shut UP!" he roared, seizing the curtain Mrs. Weasley had
aandoned.
The old woman’s face lanched.
"Yoooou!" she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of the man. "Blood traitor, aomination,
shame of my flesh!"
"I said - shut - UP!" roared the man, and with a stupendous effort he and Lupin managed to force the curtains closed again.
The old woman’s screeches died and an echoing silence fell. Panting slightly and sweeping his
long dark hair out of his eyes, Harry’s godfather Sirius turned to face him.
"Hello, Harry," he said grimly, "I see you’ve met my mother."
CHAPTER FIVE
The Order of the Phoenix
"Your -?"
"My dear old mum, yeah," said Sirius. "We’ve een trying to get her down for a month ut we
think she put a Permanent Sticking Charm on the ack of the canvas. Let’s get downstairs, quick,
efore they all wake up again."
"But what’s a portrait of your mother doing here?" Harry asked, ewildered, as they went
through the door from the hall and led the way down a flight of narrow stone steps, the others
just ehind them.
"Hasn’t anyone told you? This was my parents’ house," said Sirius. "But I’m the last Black left,
so it’s mine now. I offered it to Dumledore for Headquarters - aout the only useful thing I’ve
een ale to do."
Harry, who had expected a etter welcome, noted how hard and itter Sirius’s voice sounded. He
followed his godfather to the ottom of the steps and through a door leading into the asement
kitchen.
It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall aove, a cavernous room with rough stone walls. Most
of the light was coming from a large fire at the far end of the room. A haze of pipe smoke hung
in the air like attle fumes, through which loomed the menacing shapes of heavy iron pots and
pans hanging from the dark ceiling. Many chairs had een crammed into the room for the
meeting and a long wooden tale stood in the middle of them, littered with rolls of parchment,
golets, empty wine ottles, and a heap of what appeared to e rags. Mr. Weasley and his eldest
son Bill were talking quietly with their heads together at the end of the tale.
Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat. Her husand, a thin, alding, red-haired man who wore horn-rimmed glasses, looked around and jumped to his feet.
"Harry!" Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet him, and shaking his hand vigorously.
"Good to see you!"
Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his long hair in a ponytail, hastily rolling up the
lengths of parchment left on the tale.
"Journey all right, Harry?" Bill called, trying to gather up twelve scrolls at once. "Mad-Eye didn’t make you come via Greenland, then?"
"He tried," said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and immediately toppling a candle on to the last
piece of parchment. "Oh no - sorry -
"Here, dear," said Mrs. Weasley, sounding exasperated, and she repaired the parchment with a
wave of her wand. In the flash of light caused y Mrs. Weasley’s charm Harry caught a glimpse
of what looked like the plan of a uilding.
Mrs. Weasley had seen him looking. She snatched the plan off the tale and stuffed it into Bill’s
already overladen arms.
"This sort of thing ought to e cleared away promptly at the end of meetings," she snapped,
efore sweeping off towards an ancient dresser from which she started unloading dinner plates.
Bill took out his wand, muttered, "Evanesco!" and the scrolls vanished.
"Sit down, Harry," said Sirius. "You’ve met Mundungus, haven’t you?"
The thing Harry had taken to e a pile of rags gave a prolonged, grunting snore, then jerked
awake.
‘Some’n say m’name?’ Mundungus mumled sleepily. "I ‘gree with Sirius..." He raised a very
gruy hand in the air as though voting, his droopy, loodshot eyes unfocused.
Ginny giggled.
"The meeting’s over, Dung," said Sirius, as they all sat down around him at the tale. "Harry’s
arrived."
"Eh?" said Mundungus, peering alefully at Harry through his matted ginger hair. "Blimey, so ‘e
‘as. Yeah... you all right, ‘Arry?"
"Yeah," said Harry.
Mundungus fumled nervously in his pockets, still staring at Harry, and pulled out a grimy lack
pipe. He stuck it in his mouth, ignited the end of it with his wand and took a deep pull on it.
Great illowing clouds of greenish smoke oscured him within seconds.
"Owe you a ‘pology," grunted a voice from the middle of the smelly cloud.
"For the last time, Mundungus," called Mrs. Weasley, "will you please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, especially not when we’re aout to eat!"
"Ah," said Mundungus. "Right. Sorry, Molly."
The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed his pipe ack in his pocket, ut an acrid
smell of urning socks lingered.
"And if you want dinner efore midnight I’ll need a hand," Mrs. Weasley said to the room at
large. "No, you can stay where you are, Harry dear, you’ve had a long journey."
"What can I do, Molly?" said Tonks enthusiastically, ounding forwards.
Mrs. Weasley hesitated, looking apprehensive.
"Er - no, it’s all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, you’ve done enough today."
"No, no, I want to help!" said Tonks rightly, knocking over a chair as she hurried towards the
dresser, from which Ginny was collecting cutlery.
Soon, a series of heavy knives were chopping meat and vegetales of their own accord,
supervised y Mr. Weasley, while Mrs. Weasley stirred a cauldron dangling over the fire and the
others took out plates, more golets and food from the pantry. Harry was left at the tale with
Sirius and Mundungus, who was still linking at him mournfully.
"Seen old Figgy since?" he asked.
"No," said Harry, "I haven’t seen anyone."
"See, I wouldn’t ‘ave left," said Mundungus, leaning forward, a pleading note in his voice, "ut I
‘ad a usiness opportunity -"
Harry felt something rush against his knees and started, ut it was only Crookshanks,
Hermione’s andy-legged ginger cat, who wound himself once around Harry’s legs, purring,
then jumped on to Sirius’s lap and curled up. Sirius scratched him asent-mindedly ehind the
ears as he turned, still grim-faced, to Harry.
"Had a good summer so far?"
"No, it’s een lousy," said Harry.
For the first time, something like a grin flitted across Sirius’s face.
"Don’t know what you’re complaining aout, myself."
"What?" said Harry incredulously.
"Personally, I’d have welcomed a Dementor attack. A deadly struggle for my soul would have
roken the monotony nicely. You think you’ve had it ad, at least you’ve een ale to get out
and aout, stretch your legs, get into a few fights... I’ve een stuck inside for a month."
"How come?" asked Harry, frowning.
"Because the Ministry of Magic’s still after me, and Voldemort will know all aout me eing an
Animagus y now, Wormtail will have told him, so my ig disguise is useless. There’s not much
I can do for the Order of the Phoenix... or so Dumledore feels."
There was something aout the slightly flattened tone of voice in which Sirius uttered
Dumledore’s name that told Harry that Sirius, too, was not very happy with the Headmaster.
Harry felt a sudden upsurge of affection for his godfather.
"At least you’ve known what’s een going on," he said racingly.
"Oh yeah," said Sirius sarcastically. "Listening to Snape’s reports, having to take all his snide
hints that he’s out there risking his life while I’m sat on my ackside here having a nice
comfortale time... asking me how the cleanings going -"
"What cleaning?" asked Harry.
"Trying to make this place fit for human haitation," said Sirius, waving a hand around the dismal kitchen. "No one’s lived here for ten years, not since my dear mother died, unless you count her old house-elf, and he’s gone round the twist - hasn’t cleaned anything in ages."
"Sirius," said Mundungus, who did not appear to have paid any attention to the conversation, ut
had een closely examining an empty golet. "This solid silver, mate?"
"Yes," said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. "Finest fifteenth-century golin-wrought silver,
emossed with the Black family crest."
"That’d come off, though," muttered Mundungus, polishing it with his cuff.
"Fred - George - NO, JUST CARRY THEM!" Mrs. Weasley shrieked.
Harry, Sirius and Mundungus looked round and, a split second later, they had dived away from
the tale. Fred and George had ewitched a large cauldron of stew, an iron flagon of Buttereer
and a heavy wooden readoard, complete with knife, to hurtle through the air towards them. The stew skidded the length of the tale and came to a halt just efore the end, leaving a long
lack urn on the wooden surface; the flagon of Buttereer fell with a crash, spilling its contents
everywhere; the read knife slipped off the oard and landed, point down and quivering
ominously, exactly where Sirius’s right hand had een seconds efore.
"FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE!" screamed Mrs. Weasley. "THERE WAS NO NEED - I’VE HAD
ENOUGH OF THIS - JUST BECAUSE YOU’RE ALLOWED TO USE MAGIC NOW, YOU
DON’T HAVE TO WHIP YOUR WANDS OUT FOR EVERY TINY LITTLE THING!"
"We were just trying to save a it of time!" said Fred, hurrying forward to wrench the read knife out of the tale. "Sorry, Sirius, mate - didn’t mean to -"
Harry and Sirius were oth laughing; Mundungus, who had toppled ackwards off his chair, was
swearing as he got to his feet; Crookshanks had given an angry hiss and shot off under the
dresser, from where his large yellow eyes glowed in the darkness.
"Boys," Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew ack into the middle of the tale, "your mother’s right, you’re supposed to show a sense of responsiility now you’ve come of age -"
"None of your rothers caused this sort of troule!" Mrs. Weasley raged at the twins as she
slammed a fresh flagon of Buttereer on to the tale, and spilling almost as much again. "Bill
didn’t feel the need to Apparate every few feet! Charlie didn’t charm everything he met! Percy -"
She stopped dead, catching her reath with a frightened look at her husand, whose expression
was suddenly wooden.
"Let’s eat," said Bill quickly.
"It looks wonderful, Molly," said Lupin, ladling stew on to a plate for her and handing it across
the tale.
For a few minutes there was silence ut for the chink of plates and cutlery and the scraping of
chairs as everyone settled down to their food. Then Mrs. Weasley turned to Sirius.
"I’ve een meaning to tell you, Sirius, there’s something trapped in that writing desk in the
drawing room, it keeps rattling and shaking. Of course, it could just e a Boggart, ut I thought
we ought to ask Alastor to have a look at it efore we let it out."
"Whatever you like," said Sirius indifferently.
"The curtains in there are full of Doxys, too," Mrs. Weasley went on. "I thought we might try and tackle them tomorrow."
"I look forward to it," said Sirius. Harry heard the sarcasm in his voice, ut he was not sure that
anyone else did.
Opposite Harry, Tonks was entertaining Hermione and Ginny y transforming her nose etween
mouthfuls. Screwing up her eyes each time with the same pained expression she had worn ack
in Harry’s edroom, her nose swelled to a eak-like protuerance that resemled Snape’s, shrank
to the size of a utton mushroom and then sprouted a great deal of hair from each nostril.
Apparently this was a regular mealtime entertainment, ecause Hermione and Ginny were soon
requesting their favorite noses.
"Do that one like a pig snout, Tonks."
Tonks oliged, and Harry, looking up, had the fleeting impression that a female Dudley was
grinning at him from across the tale.
Mr. Weasley, Bill and Lupin were having an intense discussion aout golins.
"They’re not giving anything away yet," said Bill. "I still can’t work out whether or not they
elieve he’s ack. Course, they might prefer not to take sides at all. Keep out of it."
"I’m sure they’d never go over to You-Know-Who," said Mr. Weasley, shaking his head.
"They’ve suffered losses too; rememer that golin family he murdered last time, somewhere
near Nottingham?"
"I think it depends what they’re offered," said Lupin. "And I’m not talking aout gold. If they’re
offered the freedoms we’ve een denying them for centuries they’re going to e tempted. Have
you still not had any luck with Ragnok, Bill?"
"He’s feeling pretty anti-wizard at the moment," said Bill, "he hasn’t stopped raging aout the
Bagman usiness, he reckons the Ministry did a cover-up, those golins never got their gold
from him, you know -"
A gale of laughter from the middle of the tale drowned the rest of Bill’s words. Fred, George,
Ron and Mundungus were rolling around in their seats.
"... and then," choked Mundungus, tears running down his face, "and then, if you’ll elieve it, ‘e
says to me, ‘e says, ‘Ere, Dung, where did ya get all them toads from? ‘Cos some son of a
Bludger’s gone and nicked all mine!’ And I says, ‘Nicked all your toads, Will, what next? So
you’ll e wanting some more, then?’ And if you’ll elieve me, lads, the gormless gargoyle uys
all ‘is own toads ack orf me for a lot more’n what ‘e paid in the first place -"
"I don’t think we need to hear any more of your usiness dealings, thank you very much,
Mundungus," said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Ron slumped forwards on to the tale, howling with
laughter.
"Beg pardon, Molly," said Mundungus at once, wiping his eyes and winking at Harry. "But, you
know, Will nicked ‘em orf Warty Harris in the first place so I wasn’t really doing nothing
wrong."
"I don’t know where you learned aout right and wrong, Mundungus, ut you seem to have
missed a few crucial lessons," said Mrs. Weasley coldly.
Fred and George uried their faces in their golets of Buttereer; George was hiccoughing. For
some reason, Mrs. Weasley threw a very nasty look at Sirius efore getting to her feet and going
to fetch a large rhuar crumle for pudding. Harry looked round at his godfather.
"Molly doesn’t approve of Mundungus," said Sirius in an undertone.
"How come he’s in the Order?" Harry said, very quietly.
"He’s useful," Sirius muttered. "Knows all the crooks - well, he would, seeing as he’s one
himself. But he’s also very loyal to Dumledore, who helped him out of a tight spot once. It pays
to have someone like Dung around, he hears things we don’t. But Molly thinks inviting him to
stay for dinner is going too far. She hasn’t forgiven him for slipping off duty when he was
supposed to e tailing you."
Three helpings of rhuar crumle and custard later and the waistand on Harry’s jeans was
feeling uncomfortaly tight (which was saying something as the jeans had once een Dudley’s).
As he laid down his spoon there was a lull in the general conversation: Mr. Weasley was leaning
ack in his chair, looking replete and relaxed; Tonks was yawning widely, her nose now ack to
normal; and Ginny who had lured Crookshanks out from under the dresser, was sitting cross-legged on the floor, rolling Buttereer corks for him to chase.
"Nearly time for ed, I think," said Mrs. Weasley with a yawn.
"Not just yet, Molly" said Sirius, pushing away his empty plate and turning to look at Harry.
"You know, I’m surprised at you. I thought the first thing you’d do when you got here would e
to start asking questions aout Voldemort."
The atmosphere in the room changed with the rapidity Harry associated with the arrival of
Dementors. Where seconds efore it had een sleepily relaxed, it was now alert, even tense. A
frisson had gone around the tale at the mention of Voldemort’s name. Lupin, who had een
aout to take a sip of wine, lowered his golet slowly, looking wary.
"I did!" said Harry indignantly. "I asked Ron and Hermione ut they said we’re not allowed in the Order, so -"
"And they’re quite right," said Mrs. Weasley. "You’re too young."
She was sitting olt upright in her chair, her fists clenched on its arms, every trace of drowsiness
gone.
"Since when did someone have to e in the Order of the Phoenix to ask questions?" asked Sirius.
"Harry’s een trapped in that Muggle house for a month. He’s got the right to know what’s een
happen--"
"Hang on!" interrupted George loudly.
"How come Harry gets his questions answered?" said Fred angrily.
"We’ve een trying to get stuff out of you for a month and you haven’t told us a single stinking
thing!" said George.
"‘You’re too young, you’re not in the Order’," said Fred in a high-pitched voice that sounded
uncannily like his mother’s. "Harry’s not even of age!"
"It’s not my fault you haven’t een told what the Order’s doing," said Sirius calmly, "that’s your
parents’ decision. Harry, on the other hand -"
"It’s not down to you to decide what’s good for Harry!" said Mrs. Weasley sharply. The
expression on her normally kind face looked dangerous. "You haven’t forgotten what
Dumledore said, I suppose?"
"Which it?" Sirius asked politely, ut with the air of a man readying himself for a fight.
"The it aout not telling Harry more than he needs to know," said Mrs. Weasley, placing a heavy emphasis on the last three words.
Ron, Hermione, Fred and George’s heads swiveled from Sirius to Mrs. Weasley as though they
were following a tennis rally. Ginny was kneeling amid a pile of aandoned Buttereer corks,
watching the conversation with her mouth slightly open. Lupin’s eyes were fixed on Sirius.
"I don’t intend to tell him more than he needs to know, Molly," said Sirius. "But as he was the
one who saw Voldemort come ack" (again, there was a collective shudder around the tale at
the name) "he has more right than most to -"
"He’s not a memer of the Order of the Phoenix!" said Mrs. Weasley. "He’s only fifteen and -"
"And he’s dealt with as much as most in the Order," said Sirius, "and more than some."
"No one’s denying what he’s done!" said Mrs. Weasley, her voice rising, her fists tremling on
the arms of her chair. "But he’s still -"
"He’s not a child!" said Sirius impatiently.
"He’s not an adult either!" said Mrs. Weasley, the color rising in her cheeks. "He’s not James,
Sirius!"
"I’m perfectly clear who he is, thanks, Molly," said Sirius coldly.
"I’m not sure you are!" said Mrs. Weasley. "Sometimes, the way you talk aout him, it’s as
though you think you’ve got your est friend ack!"
"What’s wrong with that?" said Harry.
"What’s wrong, Harry, is that you are not your father, however much you might look like him!"
said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes still oring into Sirius. "You are still at school and adults responsile for you should not forget it!"
"Meaning I’m an irresponsile godfather?" demanded Sirius, his voice rising.
"Meaning you have een known to act rashly, Sirius, which is why Dumledore keeps reminding
you to stay at home and -"
"We’ll leave my instructions from Dumledore out of this, if you please!" said Sirius loudly.
"Arthur!" said Mrs. Weasley, rounding on her husand. "Arthur, ack me up!"
Mr. Weasley did not speak at once. He took off his glasses and cleaned them slowly on his roes,
not looking at his wife. Only when he had replaced them carefully on his nose did he reply.
"Dumledore knows the position has changed, Molly. He accepts that Harry will have to e filled in, to a certain extent, now that he is staying at Headquarters."
"Yes, ut there’s a difference etween that and inviting him to ask whatever he likes!"
"Personally," said Lupin quietly, looking away from Sirius at last, as Mrs. Weasley turned
quickly to him, hopeful that finally she was aout to get an ally, "I think it etter that Harry gets
the facts - not all the facts, Molly, ut the general picture - from us, rather than a garled version
from... others."
His expression was mild, ut Harry felt sure Lupin, at least, knew that some Extendale Ears had
survived Mrs. Weasley’s purge.
"Well," said Mrs. Weasley, reathing deeply and looking around the tale for support that did not come, "well... I can see I’m going to e overruled. I’ll just say this: Dumledore must have had his reasons for not wanting Harry to know too much, and speaking as someone who has Harry’s est interests at heart -"
"He’s not your son," said Sirius quietly.
"He’s as good as," said Mrs. Weasley fiercely. "Who else has he got?"
"He’s got me!"
"Yes," said Mrs. Weasley, her lip curling, "the thing is, it’s een rather difficult for you to look
after him while you’ve een locked up in Azkaan, hasn’t it?"
Sirius started to rise from his chair.
"Molly, you’re not the only person at this tale who cares aout Harry," said Lupin sharply.
"Sirius, sit down."
Mrs. Weasley’s lower lip was tremling. Sirius sank slowly ack into his chair, his face white.
"I think Harry ought to e allowed a say in this," Lupin continued, "he’s old enough to decide for
himself."
"I want to know what’s een going on," Harry said at once.
He did not look at Mrs. Weasley. He had een touched y what she had said aout his eing as
good as a son, ut he was also impatient with her mollycoddling. Sirius was right, he was not a
child.
"Very well," said Mrs. Weasley, her voice cracking. "Ginny - Ron - Hermione - Fred - George - I want you out of this kitchen, now."
There was instant uproar.
"We’re of age!" Fred and George ellowed together.
"If Harry’s allowed, why can’t I?" shouted Ron.
"Mum, I want to hear!" wailed Ginny.
"NO!" shouted Mrs. Weasley, standing up, her eyes over right. "I asolutely forid -"
"Molly, you can’t stop Fred and George," said Mr. Weasley wearily. "They are of age."
"They’re still at school."
"But they’re legally adults now," said Mr. Weasley, in the same tired voice.
Mrs. Weasley was now scarlet in the face.
"I - oh, all right then, Fred and George can stay, ut Ron -"
"Harry’ll tell me and Hermione everything you say anyway!" said Ron hotly. "Won’t - won’t
you?" he added uncertainly, meeting Harry’s eyes.
For a split second, Harry considered telling Ron that he wouldn’t tell him a single word, that he
could try a taste of eing kept in the dark and see how he liked it. But the nasty impulse vanished
as they looked at each other.
"Course I will," Harry said.
Ron and Hermione eamed.
"Fine!" shouted Mrs. Weasley. "Fine! Ginny - BED!"
Ginny did not go quietly. They could hear her raging and storming at her mother all the way up
the stairs, and when she reached the hall Mrs. Blacks ear-splitting shrieks were added to the din.
Lupin hurried off to the portrait to restore calm. It was only after he had returned, closing the
kitchen door ehind him and taking his seat at the tale again, that Sirius spoke.
"Okay, Harry... what do you want to know?"
Harry took a deep reath and asked the question that had osessed him for the last month.
"Where’s Voldemort?" he said, ignoring the renewed shudders and winces at the name. "What’s
he doing? I’ve een trying to watch the Muggle news, and there hasn’t een anything that looks
like him yet, no funny deaths or anything."
"That’s ecause there haven’t een any funny deaths yet," said Sirius, "not as far as we know,
anyway... and we know quite a lot."
"More than he thinks we do, anyway," said Lupin.
"How come he’s stopped killing people?" Harry asked. He knew Voldemort had murdered more
than once in the last year alone.
"Because he doesn’t want to draw attention to himself," said Sirius. "It would e dangerous for
him. His comeack didn’t come off quite the way he wanted it to, you see. He messed it up."
"Or rather, you messed it up for him," said Lupin, with a satisfied smile.
"How?" Harry asked, perplexed.
"You weren’t supposed to survive!" said Sirius. "Noody apart from his Death Eaters was
supposed to know he’d come ack. But you survived to ear witness."
"And the very last person he wanted alerted to his return the moment he got ack was
Dumledore," said Lupin. "And you made sure Dumledore knew at once."
"How has that helped?" Harry asked.
"Are you kidding?" said Bill incredulously. "Dumledore was the only one You-Know-Who was
ever scared of!"
"Thanks to you, Dumledore was ale to recall the Order of the Phoenix aout an hour after
Voldemort returned," said Sirius.
"So, what’s the Order een doing?" said Harry, looking around at them all.
"Working as hard as we can to make sure Voldemort can’t carry out his plans," said Sirius.
"How d’you know what his plans are?" Harry asked quickly.
"Dumledore’s got a shrewd idea,’ said Lupin, "and Dumledore’s shrewd ideas normally turn
out to e accurate."
"So what does Dumledore reckon he’s planning?"
"Well, firstly, he wants to uild up his army again," said Sirius. "In the old days he had huge
numers at his command: witches and wizards he’d ullied or ewitched into following him, his
faithful Death Eaters, a great variety of Dark creatures. You heard him planning to recruit the
giants; well, they’ll e just one of the groups he’s after. He’s certainly not going to try and take
on the Ministry of Magic with only a dozen Death Eaters."
"So you’re trying to stop him getting more followers?"
"We’re doing our est," said Lupin.
"How?"
"Well, the main thing is to try and convince as many people as possile that You-Know-Who
really has returned, to put them on their guard," said Bill. "It’s proving tricky, though."
"Why?"
"Because of the Ministry’s attitude," said Tonks. "You saw Cornelius Fudge after You-Know-
Who came ack, Harry. Well, he hasn’t shifted his position at all. He’s asolutely refusing to
elieve it’s happened."
"But why?" said Harry desperately. "Why’s he eing so stupid? If Dumledore -"
"Ah, well, you’ve put your finger on the prolem," said Mr. Weasley with a wry smile. "Dumledore."
"Fudge is frightened of him, you see," said Tonks sadly.
"Frightened of Dumledore?" said Harry incredulously.
"Frightened of what he’s up to," said Mr. Weasley. "Fudge thinks Dumledore’s plotting to
overthrow him. He thinks Dumledore wants to e Minister for Magic."
"But Dumledore doesn’t want -"
"Of course he doesn’t," said Mr. Weasley. "He’s never wanted the Minister’s jo, even though a
lot of people wanted him to take it when Millicent Bagnold retired. Fudge came to power
instead, ut he’s never quite forgotten how much popular support Dumledore had, even though
Dumledore never applied for the jo."
"Deep down, Fudge knows Dumledore’s much cleverer than he is - a much more powerful
wizard, and in the early days of his Ministry he was forever asking Dumledore for help and
advice," said Lupin. "But it seems he’s ecome fond of power, and much more confident. He
loves eing Minister for Magic and he’s managed to convince himself that he’s the clever one
and Dumledore’s simply stirring up troule for the sake of it."
"How can he think that?" said Harry angrily. "How can he think Dumledore would just make it
all up - that I’d make it all up?"
"Because accepting that Voldemort’s ack would mean troule like the Ministry hasn’t had to
cope with for nearly fourteen years," said Sirius itterly. "Fudge just can’t ring himself to face
it. It’s so much more comfortale to convince himself Dumledore’s lying to destailize him."
"You see the prolem," said Lupin. "While the Ministry insists there is nothing to fear from
Voldemort it’s hard to convince people he’s ack, especially as they really don’t want to elieve
it in the first place. What’s more, the Ministry’s leaning heavily on the Daily Prophet not to report any of what they’re calling Dumledore’s rumor-mongering, so most of the wizarding
community are completely unaware any things happened, and that makes them easy targets for
the Death Eaters if they’re using the Imperius Curse."
"But you’re telling people, aren’t you?" said Harry, looking around at Mr. Weasley, Sirius, Bill,
Mundungus, Lupin and Tonks. "You’re letting people know he’s ack?"
They all smiled humorlessly.
"Well, as everyone thinks I’m a mad mass-murderer and the Ministry’s put a ten thousand
Galleon price on my head, I can hardly stroll up the street and start handing out leaflets, can I?"
said Sirius restlessly.
"And I’m not a very popular dinner guest with most of the community," said Lupin. "It’s an
occupational hazard of eing a werewolf."
"Tonks and Arthur would lose their jos at the Ministry if they started shooting their mouths off," said Sirius, "and it’s very important for us to have spies inside the Ministry, ecause you can et Voldemort will have them."
"We’ve managed to convince a couple of people, though," said Mr. Weasley, "Tonks here, for
one - she’s too young to have een in the Order of the Phoenix last time, and having Aurors on
our side is a huge advantage - Kingsley Shackleolt’s een a real asset, too; he’s in charge of the
hunt for Sirius, so he’s een feeding the Ministry information that Sirius is in Tiet."
"But if none of you are putting the news out that Voldemorts ack -" Harry egan.
"Who said none of us are putting the news out?" said Sirius. "Why d’you think Dumledore’s in
such troule?"
"What d’you mean?" Harry asked.
"They’re trying to discredit him," said Lupin. "Didn’t you see the Daily Prophet last week? They
reported that he’d een voted out of the Chairmanship of the International Confederation of
Wizards ecause he’s getting old and losing his grip, ut it’s not true; he was voted out y
Ministry wizards after he made a speech announcing Voldemorts return. They’ve demoted him
from Chief Warlock on the Wizengamot - that’s the Wizard High Court - and they’re talking
aout taking away his Order of Merlin, First Class, too."
"But Dumledore says he doesn’t care what they do as long as they don’t take him off the
Chocolate Frog Cards," said Bill, grinning.
"It’s no laughing matter," said Mr. Weasley sharply. "If he carries on defying the Ministry like
this he could end up in Azkaan, and the last thing we want is to have Dumledore locked up.
While You-Know-Who knows Dumledore’s out there and wise to what he’s up to he’s going to
go cautiously. If Dumledore’s out of the way - well, You-Know-Who will have a clear field."
"But if Voldemort’s trying to recruit more Death Eaters it’s ound to get out that he’s come ack, isn’t it?" asked Harry desperately.
"Voldemort doesn’t march up to people’s houses and ang on their front doors, Harry," said
Sirius. "He tricks, jinxes and lackmails them. He’s well-practiced at operating in secret. In any
case, gathering followers is only one thing he’s interested in. He’s got other plans too, plans he
can put into operation very quietly indeed, and he’s concentrating on those for the moment.’
"What’s he after apart from followers?" Harry asked swiftly. He thought he saw Sirius and Lupin
exchange the most fleeting of looks efore Sirius answered.
"Stuff he can only get y stealth."
When Harry continued to look puzzled, Sirius said, "Like a weapon. Something he didn’t have
last time."
"When he was powerful efore?"
"Yes."
"Like what kind of weapon?" said Harry. "Something worse than the Avada Kedavra -?"
"That’s enough!"
Mrs. Weasley spoke from the shadows eside the door. Harry hadn’t noticed her return from
taking Ginny upstairs. Her arms were crossed and she looked furious.
"I want you in ed, now. All of you," she added, looking around at Fred, George, Ron and
Hermione.
"You can’t oss us -" Fred egan.
"Watch me," snarled Mrs. Weasley. She was tremling slightly as she looked at Sirius. "You’ve
given Harry plenty of information. Any more and you might just as well induct him into the
Order straightaway."
"Why not?" said Harry quickly. "I’ll join, I want to join, I want to fight."
"No."
It was not Mrs. Weasley who spoke this time, ut Lupin.
"The Order is comprised only of overage wizards," he said. "Wizards who have left school," he
added, as Fred and George opened their mouths. "There are dangers involved of which you can
have no idea, any of you... I think Molly’s right, Sirius. We’ve said enough."
Sirius half-shrugged ut did not argue. Mrs. Weasley eckoned imperiously to her sons and
Hermione. One y one they stood up and Harry, recognizing defeat, followed suit.
CHAPTER SIX
The Nole and Most Ancient House of Black
Mrs. Weasley followed them upstairs looking grim.
"I want you all to go straight to ed, no talking," she said as they reached the first landing, "we’ve got a usy day tomorrow. I expect Ginny’s asleep," she added to Hermione, "so try not to wake her up."
"Asleep, yeah, right," said Fred in an undertone, after Hermione ade them goodnight and they
were climing to the next floor. "If Ginny’s not lying awake waiting for Hermione to tell her
everything they said downstairs then I’m a Floerworm..."
"All right, Ron, Harry," said Mrs. Weasley on the second landing, pointing them into their
edroom. "Off to ed with you."
"Night," Harry and Ron said to the twins.
"Sleep tight," said Fred, winking.
Mrs. Weasley closed the door ehind Harry with a sharp snap. The edroom looked, if anything,
even danker and gloomier than it had on first sight. The lank picture on the wall was now
reathing very slowly and deeply, as though its invisile occupant was asleep. Harry put on his
pajamas, took off his glasses and climed into his chilly ed while Ron threw Owl Treats up on
top of the wardroe to pacify Hedwig and Pigwidgeon, who were clattering around and rustling
their wings restlessly.
"We can’t let them out to hunt every night," Ron explained as he pulled on his maroon pajamas.
"Dumledore doesn’t want too many owls swooping around the square, thinks it’ll look
suspicious. Oh yeah... I forgot..."
He crossed to the door and olted it.
"What’re you doing that for?"
"Kreacher," said Ron as he turned off the light. "First night I was here he came wandering in at
three in the morning. Trust me, you don’t want to wake up and find him prowling around your
room. Anyway..." he got into his ed, settled down under the covers then turned to look at Harry
in the darkness; Harry could see his outline y the moonlight filtering in through the grimy
window, "what d’you reckon?"
Harry didn’t need to ask what Ron meant.
"Well, they didn’t tell us much we couldn’t have guessed, did they?" he said, thinking of all that
had een said downstairs. "I mean, all they’ve really said is that the Order’s trying to stop people
joining Vol--"
There was a sharp intake of reath from Ron.
"--demort," said Harry firmly. "When are you going to start using his name? Sirius and Lupin do."
Ron ignored this last comment.
"Yeah, you’re right," he said, "we already knew nearly everything they told us, from using the
Extendale Ears. The only new it was -"
Crack.
"OUCH!"
"Keep your voice down, Ron, or Mum’ll e ack up he re."
"You two just Apparated on my knees!"
"Yeah, well, it’s harder in the dark."
Harry saw the lurred outlines of Fred and George leaping down from Ron’s ed. There was a
groan of edsprings and Harry’s mattress descended a few inches as George sat down near his
feet.
"So, got there yet?" said George eagerly.
"The weapon Sirius mentioned?" said Harry.
"Let slip, more like," said Fred with relish, now sitting next to Ron. "We didn’t hear aout that on the old Extendales, did we?"
"What d’you reckon it is?" said Harry.
"Could e anything," said Fred.
"But there can’t e anything worse than the Avada Kedavra Curse, can there?" said Ron. "What’s worse than death?"
"Maye it’s something that can kill loads of people at once," suggested George.
"Maye it’s some particularly painful way of killing people," said Ron fearfully.
"He’s got the Cruciatus Curse for causing pain," said Harry, "he doesn’t need anything more
efficient than that."
There was a pause and Harry knew that the others, like him, were wondering what horrors this
weapon could perpetrate.
"So who d’you think’s got it now?" asked George.
"I hope it’s our side," said Ron, sounding slightly nervous.
"If it is, Dumledore’s proaly keeping it," said Fred.
"Where?" said Ron quickly. "Hogwarts?"
"Bet it is!" said George. "That’s where he hid the Sorcerer’s Stone."
"A weapons going to e a lot igger than the Stone, though!" said Ron.
"Not necessarily" said Fred.
"Yeah, size is no guarantee of power," said George. "Look at Ginny."
"What d’you mean?" said Harry.
"You’ve never een on the receiving end of one of her Bat-Bogey Hexes, have you?"
"Shh!" said Fred, half-rising from the ed. "Listen!"
They fell silent. Footsteps were coming up the stairs.
"Mum," said George and without further ado there was a loud crack and Harry felt the weight
vanish from the end of his ed. A few seconds later, they heard the flooroard creak outside their
door; Mrs. Weasley was plainly listening to check whether or not they were talking.
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon hooted dolefully. The flooroard creaked again and they heard her
heading upstairs to check on Fred and George.
"She doesn’t trust us at all, you know," said Ron regretfully.
Harry was sure he would not e ale to fall asleep; the evening had een so packed with things to
think aout that he fully expected to lie awake for hours mulling it all over. He wanted to
continue talking to Ron, ut Mrs. Weasley was now creaking ack downstairs again, and once
she had gone he distinctly heard others making their way upstairs... in fact, many-legged
creatures were cantering softly up and down outside the edroom door, and Hagrid the Care of
Magical Creatures teacher was saying, "Beauties, arn’ they, eh, Harry? We’ll e studyin’ weapons this term..." and Harry saw that the creatures had cannons for heads and were wheeling to face him... he ducked...
The next thing he knew, he was curled into a warm all under his edclothes and Georges loud
voice was filling the room.
"Mum says get up, your reakfast is in the kitchen and then she needs you in the drawing room,
there are loads more Doxys than she thought and she’s found a nest of dead Puffskeins under the
sofa."
Half an hour later Harry and Ron, who had dressed and reakfasted quickly, entered the drawing
room, a long, high-ceilinged room on the first floor with olive green walls covered in dirty
tapestries. The carpet exhaled little clouds of dust every time someone put their foot on it and the
long, moss green velvet curtains were uzzing as though swarming with invisile ees. It was
around these that Mrs. Weasley, Hermione, Ginny, Fred and George were grouped, all looking
rather peculiar as they had each tied a cloth over their nose and mouth. Each of them was also
holding a large ottle of lack liquid with anozzle at the end.
"Cover your faces and take a spray," Mrs. Weasley said to Harry and Ron the moment she saw
them, pointing to two more ottles of lack liquid standing on a spindle-legged tale. "It’s
Doxycide. I’ve never seen an infestation this ad - what that house-elf’s een doing for the last ten years -"
Hermione’s face was half concealed y a tea towel ut Harry distinctly saw her throw a
reproachful look at Mrs. Weasley.
"Kreacher’s really old, he proaly couldn’t manage -"
"You’d e surprised what Kreacher can manage when he wants to, Hermione," said Sirius, who
had just entered the room carrying a loodstained ag of what appeared to e dead rats. "I’ve just
een feeding Buckeak," he added, in reply to Harry s enquiring look. "I keep him upstairs in my
mothers edroom. Anyway... this writing desk..."
He dropped the ag of rats into an armchair, then ent over to examine the locked cainet which,
Harry now noticed for the first time, was shaking slightly.
"Well, Molly, I’m pretty sure this is a Boggart," said Sirius, peering through the keyhole, "ut
perhaps we ought to let Mad-Eye have a shifty at it efore we let it out - knowing my mother, it
could e something much worse."
"Right you are, Sirius," said Mrs. Weasley.
They were oth speaking in carefully light, polite voices that told Harry quite plainly that neither
had forgotten their disagreement of the night efore.
A loud, clanging ell sounded from downstairs, followed at once y the cacophony of screams
and wails that had een triggered the previous night y Tonks knocking over the umrella stand.
"I keep telling them not to ring the doorell!" said Sirius exasperatedly, hurrying out of the room.
They heard him thundering down the stairs as Mrs. Black’s screeches echoed up through the
house once more:
"Stains, of dishonor, filthy half-reeds, lood traitors, children of filth"
"Close the door, please, Harry," said Mrs. Weasley.
Harry took as much time as he dared to close the drawing-room door; he wanted to listen to what
was going on downstairs. Sirius had oviously managed to shut the curtains over his mother’s
portrait ecause she had stopped screaming. He heard Sirius walking down the hall, then the
clattering of the chain on the front door, and then a deep voice he recognized as Kingsley
Shackleolt’s saying, "Hestia’s just relieved me, so she’s got Moody’s Cloak now, thought I’d
leave a report for Dumledore..."
Feeling Mrs. Weasley’s eyes on the ack of his head, Harry regretfully closed the drawing-room
door and rejoined the Doxy party.
Mrs. Weasley was ending over to check the page on Doxys in Gilderoy Lockhart’s Guide to
Household Pests, which was lying open on the sofa.
"Right, you lot, you need to e careful, ecause Doxys ite and their teeth are poisonous. I’ve got a ottle of antidote here, ut I’d rather noody needed it."
She straightened up, positioned herself squarely in front of the curtains and eckoned them all
forward.
"When I say the word, start spraying immediately," she said. "They’ll come flying out at us, I
expect, ut it says on the sprays one good squirt will paralyze them. When they’re immoilized,
just throw them in this ucket."
She stepped carefully out of their line of fire, and raised her own spray.
"All right - squirt!"
Harry had een spraying only a few seconds when a fully-grown Doxy came soaring out of a
fold in the material, shiny eetle-like wings whirring, tiny needle-sharp teeth ared, its fairy-like
ody covered with thick lack hair and its four tiny fists clenched with fury. Harry caught it full
in the face with a last of Doxycide. It froze in midair and fell, with a surprisingly loud hunk, on
to the worn carpet elow. Harry picked it up and threw it in the ucket.
"Fred, what are you doing?" said Mrs. Weasley sharply. "Spray that at once and throw it away!"
Harry looked round. Fred was holding a struggling Doxy etween his forefinger and thum.
"Right-o,’ Fred said rightly, spraying the Doxy quickly in the face so that it fainted, ut the
moment Mrs. Weasley’s ack was turned he pocketed it with a wink.
"We want to experiment with Doxy venom for our Skiving Snackoxes," George told Harry under his reath.
Deftly spraying two Doxys at once as they soared straight for his nose, Harry moved closer to
George and muttered out of the corner of his mouth, "What are Skiving Snackoxes?"
"Range of sweets to make you ill," George whispered, keeping a wary eye on Mrs. Weasley’s
ack. "Not seriously ill, mind, just ill enough to get you out of a class when you feel like it. Fred
and I have een developing them this summer. They’re doule-ended, color-coded chews. If
you eat the orange half of the Puking Pastilles, you throw up. Moment you’ve een rushed out of
the lesson for the hospital wing, you swallow the purple half -"
"which restores you to full fitness, enaling you to pursue the leisure activity of your own
choice during an hour that would otherwise have een devoted to unprofitale oredom. That’s
what we’re putting in the adverts, anyway," whispered Fred, who had edged over out of Mrs.
Weasley’s line of vision and was now sweeping a few stray Doxys from the floor and adding
them to his pocket. "But they still need a it of work. At the moment our testers are having a it
of troule stopping puking long enough to swallow the purple end."
"Testers?"
"Us," said Fred. "We take it in turns. George did the Fainting Fancies - we oth tried the
Noseleed Nougat -"
"Mum thought we’d een dueling," said George.
"Joke shop still on, then?" Harry muttered, pretending to e adjusting the nozzle on his spray.
"Well, we haven’t had a chance to get premises yet," said Fred, dropping his voice even lower as
Mrs. Weasley mopped her row with her scarf efore returning to the attack, "so we’re running it
as a mail-order service at the moment. We put advertisements in the Daily Prophet last week."
"All thanks to you, mate," said George. "But don’t worry... Mum hasn’t got a clue. She won’t read the Daily Prophet any more, ‘cause of it telling lies aout you and Dumledore."
Harry grinned. He had forced the Weasley twins to take the thousand Galleons prize money he
had won in the Triwizard Tournament to help them realize their amition to open a joke shop,
ut he was still glad to know that his part in furthering their plans was unknown to Mrs.
Weasley. She did not think running a joke shop was a suitale career for two of her sons.
The de-Doxying of the curtains took most of the morning. It was past midday when Mrs.
Weasley finally removed her protective scarf, sank into a sagging armchair and sprang up again
with a cry of disgust, having sat on the ag of dead rats. The curtains were no longer uzzing;
they hung limp and damp from the intensive spraying. At the foot of them unconscious Doxys
lay crammed in the ucket eside a owl of their lack eggs, at which Crookshanks was now
sniffing and Fred and George were shooting covetous looks.
"I think we’ll tackle those after lunch." Mrs. Weasley pointed at the dusty glass-fronted cainets
standing on either side of the mantelpiece. They were crammed with an odd assortment of
ojects: a selection of rusty daggers, claws, a coiled snakeskin, a numer of tarnished silver
oxes inscried with languages Harry could not understand and, least pleasant of all, an ornate
crystal ottle with a large opal set into the stopper, full of what Harry was quite sure was lood.
The clanging doorell rang again. Everyone looked at Mrs. Weasley.
"Stay here," she said firmly, snatching up the ag of rats as Mrs. Black’s screeches started up
again from down elow. "I’ll ring up some sandwiches."
She left the room, closing the door carefully ehind her. At once, everyone dashed over to the
window to look down on the doorstep. They could see the top of an unkempt gingery head and a
stack of precariously alanced cauldrons.
"Mundungus!" said Hermione. "What’s he rought all those cauldrons for?"
"Proaly looking for a safe place to keep them," said Harry. "Isn’t that what he was doing the
night he was supposed to e tailing me? Picking up dodgy cauldrons?"
"Yeah, you’re right!" said Fred, as the front door opened; Mundungus heaved his cauldrons
through it and disappeared from view. "Blimey, Mum won’t like that..."
He and George crossed to the door and stood eside it, listening closely. Mrs. Black’s screaming
had stopped.
"Mundungus is talking to Sirius and Kingsley," Fred muttered, frowning with concentration. "Can’t hear properly... d’you reckon we can risk the Extendale Ears?"
"Might e worth it," said George. "I could sneak up stairs and get a pair -"
But at that precise moment there was an explosion of sound from downstairs that rendered
Extendale Ears quite unnecessary. All of them could hear exactly what Mrs. Weasley was
shouting at the top of her voice.
"WE ARE NOT RUNNING A HIDEOUT FOR STOLEN GOODS!"
"I love hearing Mum shouting at someone else," said Fred, with a satisfied smile on his face as he opened the door an inch or so to allow Mrs. Weasley’s voice to permeate the room etter, "it
makes such a nice change."
"- COMPLETELY IRRESPONSIBLE, AS IF WE HAVEN’T GOT ENOUGH TO WORRY
ABOUT WITHOUT YOU DRAGGING STOLEN CAULDRONS INTO THE HOUSE -"
"The idiots are letting her get into her stride," said George, shaking his head. "You’ve got to head her off early otherwise she uilds up a head of steam and goes on for hours. And she’s een
dying to have a go at Mundungus ever since he sneaked off when he was supposed to e
following you, Harry - and there goes Sirius’s mum again."
Mrs. Weasley’s voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and screams from the portraits in the hall.
George made to shut the door to drown the noise, ut efore he could do so, a house-elf edged
into the room.
Except for the filthy rag tied like a loincloth around its middle, it was completely naked. It
looked very old. Its skin seemed to e several times too ig for it and, though it was ald like all
house-elves, there was a quantity of white hair growing out of its large, atlike ears. Its eyes
were a loodshot and watery grey and its fleshy nose was large and rather snoutlike.
The elf took asolutely no notice of Harry and the rest. Acting as though it could not see them, it
shuffled hunchacked, slowly and doggedly, towards the far end of the room, all the while
muttering under its reath in a hoarse, deep voice like a ullfrogs.
"... smells like a drain and a criminal to oot, ut she’s no etter, nasty old lood traitor with her
rats messing up my mistress’s house, oh, my poor mistress, if she knew, if she knew the scum
they’ve let into her house, what would she say to old Kreacher, oh, the shame of it, Mudloods
and werewolves and traitors and thieves, poor old Kreacher, what can he do..."
"Hello, Kreacher," said Fred very loudly, closing the door with a snap.
The house-elf froze in his tracks, stopped muttering, and gave a very pronounced and very
unconvincing start of surprise.
"Kreacher did not see young master," he said, turning around and owing to Fred. Still facing the
carpet, he added, perfectly audily, "Nasty little rat of a lood traitor it is."
"Sorry?" said George. "Didn’t catch that last it."
"Kreacher said nothing," said the elf, with a second ow to George, adding in a clear undertone,
"and there’s its twin, unnatural little easts they are."
Harry didn’t know whether to laugh or not. The elf straightened up, eyeing them all
malevolently, and apparently convinced that they could not hear him as he continued to mutter.
"... and there’s the Mudlood, standing there old as rass, oh, if my mistress knew, oh, how
she’d cry, and there’s a new oy, Kreacher doesn’t know his name. What is he doing here?
Kreacher doesn’t know..."
"This is Harry, Kreacher," said Hermione tentatively. "Harry Potter."
Kreacher’s pale eyes widened and he muttered faster and more furiously than ever.
"The Mudlood is talking to Kreacher as though she is my friend, if Kreacher’s mistress saw him
in such company, oh, what would she say -"
"Don’t call her a Mudlood!" said Ron and Ginny together, very angrily.
"It doesn’t matter," Hermione whispered, "he’s not in his right mind, he doesn’t know what he’s -"
"Don’t kid yourself, Hermione, he knows exactly what he’s saying," said Fred, eyeing Kreacher
with great dislike.
Kreacher was still muttering, his eyes on Harry.
"Is it true? Is it Harry Potter? Kreacher can see t he scar, it must e true, that’s the oy who
stopped the Dark Lord, Kreacher wonders how he did it -"
"Don’t we all, Kreacher," said Fred.
"What do you want, anyway?" George asked.
Kreacher’s huge eyes darted towards George.
"Kreacher is cleaning," he said evasively.
"A likely story," said a voice ehind Harry.
Sirius had come ack; he was glowering at the elf from the doorway. The noise in the hall had
aated; perhaps Mrs. Weasley and Mundungus had moved their argument down into the kitchen.
At the sight of Sirius, Kreacher flung himself into a ridiculously low ow that flattened his
snoutlike nose on the floor.
"Stand up straight," said Sirius impatiently. "Now, what are you up to?"
"Kreacher is cleaning," the elf repeated. "Kreacher lives to serve the Nole House of Black -"
"And it’s getting lacker every day, it’s filthy," said Sirius.
"Master always liked his little joke," said Kreacher, owing again, and continuing in an
undertone, "Master was a nasty ungrateful swine who roke his mother’s heart -"
"My mother didn’t have a heart, Kreacher," snapped Sirius. "She kept herself alive out of pure
spite."
Kreacher owed again as he spoke.
"Whatever Master says," he muttered furiously. "Master is not fit to wipe slime from his mother’s oots, oh, my poor mistress, what would she say if she saw Kreacher serving him, how she hated him, what a disappointment he was -"
"I asked you what you were up to," said Sirius coldly. "Every time you show up pretending to e
cleaning, you sneak something off to your room so we can’t throw it out."
"Kreacher would never move anything from its proper place in Master’s house," said the elf, then muttered very fast, "Mistress would never forgive Kreacher if the tapestry was thrown out, seven centuries it’s een in the family, Kreacher must save it, Kreacher will not let Master and the lood traitors and the rats destroy it -"
"I thought it might e that," said Sirius, casting a disdainful look at the opposite wall. "She’ll have put another Permanent Sticking Charm on the ack of it, I don’t dout, ut if I can get rid of it I certainly will. Now go away, Kreacher."
It seemed that Kreacher did not dare disoey a direct order; nevertheless, the look he gave Sirius
as he shuffled out past him was full of deepest loathing and he muttered all the way out of the
room.
"- comes ack from Azkaan ordering Kreacher around, oh, my poor mistress, what would she
say if she saw the house now, scum living in it, her treasures thrown out, she swore he was no
son of hers and he’s ack, they say he’s a murderer too -"
"Keep muttering and I will e a murderer!" said Sirius irritaly as he slammed the door shut on
the elf.
"Sirius, he’s not right in the head," Hermione pleaded, "I don’t think he realizes we can hear him."
"He’s een alone too long," said Sirius, "taking mad orders from my mother’s portrait and talking to himself, ut he was always a foul little -"
"If you could just set him free," said Hermione hopefully, "maye -"
"We can’t set him free, he knows too much aout the Order" said Sirius curtly. "And anyway, the shock would kill him. You suggest to him that he leaves this house, see how he takes it."
Sirius walked across the room to where the tapestry Kreacher had een trying to protect hung the
length of the wall. Harry and the others followed.
The tapestry looked immensely old; it was faded and looked as though Doxys had gnawed it in
places. Nevertheless, the golden thread with which it was emroidered still glinted rightly
enough to show them a sprawling family tree dating ack (as far as Harry could tell) to the
Middle Ages. Large words at the very top of the tapestry read:
The Nole and Most Ancient House of Black Toujours pur
"You’re not on here!" said Harry, after scanning the ottom of the tree closely.
"I used to e there," said Sirius, pointing at a small, round, charred hole in the tapestry, rather like a cigarette urn. "My sweet old mother lasted me off after I ran away from home - Kreacher’s quite fond of muttering the story under his reath."
"You ran away from home?"
"When I was aout sixteen," said Sirius. "I’d had enough."
"Where did you go?" asked Harry, staring at him.
"Your dad’s place," said Sirius. "Your grandparents were really good aout it; they sort of adopted me as a second son. Yeah, I camped out at your dad’s in the school holidays, and when I was seventeen I got a place of my own. My Uncle Alphard had left me a decent it of gold - he’s een wiped off here, too, that’s proaly why - anyway, after that I looked after myself. I was always welcome at Mr. and Mrs. Potter’s for Sunday lunch, though."
"But... why did you...?"
"Leave?" Sirius smiled itterly and ran his fingers through his long, unkempt hair. "Because I
hated the whole lot of them: my parents, with their pure-lood mania, convinced that to e a
Black made you practically royal... my idiot rother, soft enough to elieve them... that’s him."
Sirius jaed a finger at the very ottom of the tree, at the name Regulus Black. A date of death
(some fifteen years previously) followed the date of irth.
"He was younger than me," said Sirius, "and a much etter son, as I was constantly reminded."
"But he died," said Harry.
"Yeah," said Sirius. "Stupid idiot... he joined the Death Eaters."
"You’re kidding!"
"Come on, Harry, haven’t you seen enough of this house to tell what kind of wizards my family
were?" said Sirius testily.
"Were - were your parents Death Eaters as well?"
"No, no, ut elieve me, they thought Voldemort had the right idea, they were all for the
purification of the wizarding race, getting rid of Muggle-orns and having pure-loods in charge.
They weren’t alone, either, there were quite a few people, efore Voldemort showed his true
colors, who thought he had the right idea aout things... they got cold feet when they saw what
he was prepared to do to get power, though. But I et my parents thought Regulus was a right
little hero for joining up at first."
"Was he killed y an Auror?" Harry asked tentatively.
"Oh, no," said Sirius. "No, he was murdered y Voldemort. Or on Voldemort’s orders, more likely; I dout Regulus was ever important enough to e killed y Voldemort in person. From what I found out after he died, he got in so far, then panicked aout what he was eing asked to do and tried to ack out. Well, you don’t just hand in your resignation to Voldemort. It’s a lifetime of service or death."
"Lunch," said Mrs. Weasleys voice.
She was holding her wand high in front of her, alancing a huge tray loaded with sandwiches and
cake on its tip. She was very red in the face and still looked angry. The others moved over to her,
eager for some food, ut Harry remained with Sirius, who had ent closer to the tapestry.
"I haven’t looked at this for years. There’s Phineas Nigellus... my great-great-grandfather, see?... least popular Headmaster Hogwarts ever had... and Araminta Mehflua... cousin of my
mothers... tried to force through a Ministry Bill to make Muggle-hunting legal... and dear Aunt
Elladora... she started the family tradition of eheading house-elves when they got too old to
carry tea trays... of course, any time the family produced someone halfway decent they were
disowned. I see Tonks isn’t on here. Maye that’s why Kreacher won’t take orders from her - he’s supposed to do whatever anyone in the family asks him -"
"You and Tonks are related?" Harry asked, surprised.
"Oh, yeah, her mother Andromeda was my favorite cousin," said Sirius, examining the tapestry
closely. "No, Andromeda’s not on here either, look -"
He pointed to another small round urn mark etween two names, Bellatrix and Narcissa.
"Andromeda’s sisters are still here ecause they made lovely, respectale pure-lood marriages,
ut Andromeda married a Muggle-orn, Ted Tonks, so -"
Sirius mimed lasting the tapestry with a wand and laughed sourly. Harry, however, did not
laugh; he was too usy staring at the names to the right of Andromeda’s urn mark. A doule line of gold emroidery linked Narcissa Black with Lucius Malfoy and a single vertical gold line
from their names led to the name Draco.
"You’re related to the Malfoys!"
"The pure-lood families are all interrelated," said Sirius. "If you’re only going to let your sons
and daughters marry pure-loods your choice is very limited; there are hardly any of us left.
Molly and I are cousins y marriage and Arthur’s something like my second cousin once
removed. But there’s no point looking for them on here - if ever a family was a unch of lood
traitors it’s the Weasleys."
But Harry was now looking at the name to the left of Andromeda’s urn: Bellatrix Black, which
was connected y a doule line to Rodolphus Lestrange.
"Lestrange..." Harry said aloud. The name had stirred something in his memory; he knew it from somewhere, ut for a moment he couldn’t think where, though it gave him an odd, creeping
sensation in the pit of his stomach.
"They’re in Azkaan," said Sirius shortly.
Harry looked at him curiously.
"Bellatrix and her husand Rodolphus came in with Barty Crouch junior," said Sirius, in the same rusque voice. "Rodolphuss rother Raastan was with them, too."
Then Harry rememered. He had seen Bellatrix Lestrange inside Dumledore’s Pensieve, the
strange device in which thoughts and memories could e stored: a tall dark woman with heavylidded eyes, who had stood at her trial and proclaimed her continuing allegiance to Lord
Voldemort, her pride that she had tried to find him after his downfall and her conviction that she
would one day e rewarded for her loyalty.
"You never said she was your -"
"Does it matter if she’s my cousin?" snapped Sirius. "As far as I’m concerned, they’re not my
family. She’s certainly not my family. I haven’t seen her since I was your age, unless you count a
glimpse of her coming into Azkaan. D’you think I’m proud of having a relative like her?"
"Sorry," said Harry quickly, "I didn’t mean - I was just surprised, that’s all -"
"It doesn’t matter, don’t apologize," Sirius mumled. He turned away from the tapestry, his hands deep in his pockets. "I don’t like eing ack here," he said, staring across the drawing room. "I never thought I’d e stuck in this house again."
Harry understood completely. He knew how he would feel, when he was grown up and thought
he was free of the place for ever, to return and live at numer four, Privet Drive.
"It’s ideal for Headquarters, of course," Sirius said. "My father put every security measure known to wizard kind on it when he lived here. It’s unplottale, so Muggles could never come and call - as if they’d ever have wanted to - and now Dumledore’s added his protection, you’d e hard put to find a safer house anywhere. Dumledore is Secret Keeper for the Order, you know - noody can find Headquarters unless he tells them personally where it is - that note Moody showed you last night, that was from Dumledore..." Sirius gave a short, ark-like laugh. "If my parents could see the use their house was eing put to now... well, my mothers portrait should give you some idea."
He scowled for a moment, then sighed.
"I wouldn’t mind if I could just get out occasionally and do something useful. I’ve asked
Dumledore whether I can escort you to your hearing - as Snuffles, oviously - so I can give you
a it of moral support, what d’you think?"
Harry felt as though his stomach had sunk through the dusty carpet. He had not thought aout the
hearing once since dinner the previous evening; in the excitement of eing ack with the people
he liked est, and hearing everything that was going on, it had completely flown his mind. At
Sirius’s words, however, the crushing sense of dread returned to him. He stared at Hermione and
the Weasleys, all tucking into their sandwiches, and thought how he would feel if they went ack
to Hogwarts without him.
"Don’t worry," Sirius said. Harry looked up and realized that Sirius had een watching him. "I’m
sure they’ll clear you, there’s definitely something in the International Statute of Secrecy aout
eing allowed to use magic to save your own life."
"But if they do expel me," said Harry quietly, "can I come ack here and live with you?"
Sirius smiled sadly.
"We’ll see."
"I’d feel a lot etter aout the hearing if I knew I didn’t have to go ack to the Dursleys," Harry
pressed him.
"They must e ad if you prefer this place," said Sirius gloomily.
"Hurry up, you two, or there won’t e any food left," Mrs. Weasley called.
Sirius heaved another great sigh, cast a dark look at the tapestry, then he and Harry went to join
the others.
Harry tried his est not to think aout the hearing while they emptied the glass-fronted cainets
that afternoon. Fortunately for him, it was a jo that required a lot of concentration, as many of
the ojects in there seemed very reluctant to leave their dusty shelves. Sirius sustained a ad ite
from a silver snuffox; within seconds his itten hand had developed an unpleasant crusty
covering like a tough rown glove.
"It’s okay," he said, examining the hand with interest efore tapping it lightly with his wand and
restoring its skin to normal, "must e Wartcap powder in there."
He threw the ox aside into the sack where they were depositing the deris from the cainets;
Harry saw George wrap his own hand carefully in a cloth moments later and sneak the ox into
his already Doxy-filled pocket.
They found an unpleasant-looking silver instrument, something like a many-legged pair of
tweezers, which scuttled up Harry’s arm like a spider when he picked it up, and attempted to
puncture his skin. Sirius seized it and smashed it with a heavy ook entitled Nature’s Noility: A
Wizarding Genealogy. There was a musical ox that emitted a faintly sinister, tinkling tune
when wound, and they all found themselves ecoming curiously weak and sleepy, until Ginny
had the sense to slam the lid shut; a heavy locket that none of them could open; a numer of
ancient seals; and, in a dusty ox, an Order of Merlin, First Class, that had een awarded to
Sirius’s grandfather for services to the Ministry.
"It means he gave them a load of gold," said Sirius contemptuously, throwing the medal into the
ruish sack.
Several times Kreacher sidled into the room and attempted to smuggle things away under his
loincloth, muttering horrile curses every time they caught him at it. When Sirius wrested a large
golden ring earing the Black crest from his grip, Kreacher actually urst into furious tears and
left the room soing under his reath and calling Sirius names Harry had never heard efore.
"It was my father’s," said Sirius, throwing the ring into the sack. "Kreacher wasn’t quite as devoted to him as to my mother, ut I still caught him snogging a pair of my father’s old trousers last week."
Mrs. Weasley kept them all working very hard over the next few days. The drawing room took
three days to decontaminate. Finally, the only undesirale things left in it were the tapestry of the
Black family tree, which resisted all their attempts to remove it from the wall, and the rattling
writing desk. Moody had not dropped y Headquarters yet, so they could not e sure what was
inside it.
They moved from the drawing room to a dining room on the ground floor where they found
spiders as large as saucers lurking in the dresser (Ron left the room hurriedly to make a cup of
tea and did not return for an hour and a half). The china, which ore the Black crest and motto,
was all thrown unceremoniously into a sack y Sirius, and the same fate met a set of old
photographs in tarnished silver frames, all of whose occupants squealed shrilly as the glass
covering them smashed.
Snape might refer to their work as ‘cleaning’, ut in Harry’s opinion they were really waging war on the house, which was putting up a very good fight, aided and aetted y Kreacher. The house-elf kept appearing wherever they were congregated, his muttering ecoming more and more offensive as he attempted to remove anything he could from the ruish sacks. Sirius went as far as to threaten him with clothes, ut Kreacher fixed him with a watery stare and said, "Master must do as Master wishes," efore turning away and muttering very loudly, "ut Master will not turn Kreacher away, no, ecause Kreacher knows what they are up to, oh yes, he is plotting against the Dark Lord, yes, with these Mudloods and traitors and scum..." At which Sirius, ignoring Hermione’s protests, seized Kreacher y the ack of his loincloth and
threw him odily from the room.
The doorell rang several times a day, which was the cue for Sirius’s mother to start shrieking
again, and for Harry and the others to attempt to eavesdrop on the visitor, though they gleaned
very little from the rief glimpses and snatches of conversation they were ale to sneak efore
Mrs. Weasley recalled them to their tasks. Snape flitted in and out of the house several times
more, though to Harry’s relief they never came face to face; Harry also caught sight of his
Transfiguration teacher Professor McGonagall, looking very odd in a Muggle dress and coat, and
she also seemed too usy to linger. Sometimes, however, the visitors stayed to help. Tonks
joined them for a memorale afternoon in which they found a murderous old ghoul lurking in an
upstairs toilet, and Lupin, who was staying in the house with Sirius ut who left it for long
periods to do mysterious work for the Order, helped them repair a grandfather clock that had
developed the unpleasant hait of shooting heavy olts at passers-y. Mundungus redeemed
himself slightly in Mrs. Weasley’s eyes y rescuing Ron from an ancient set of purple roes that
had tried to strangle him when he removed them from their wardroe.
Despite the fact that he was still sleeping adly, still having dreams aout corridors and locked
doors that made his scar prickle, Harry was managing to have fun for the first time all summer.
As long as he was usy he was happy; when the action aated, however, whenever he dropped
his guard, or lay exhausted in ed watching lurred shadows move across the ceiling, the thought
of the looming Ministry hearing returned to him. Fear jaed at his insides like needles as he
wondered what was going to happen to him if he was expelled. The idea was so terrile that he
did not dare voice it aloud, not even to Ron and Hermione, who, though he often saw them
whispering together and casting anxious looks in his direction, followed his lead in not
mentioning it. Sometimes, he could not prevent his imagination showing him a faceless Ministry
official who was snapping his wand in two and ordering him ack to the Dursleys’... ut he
would not go. He was determined on that. He would come ack here to Grimmauld Place and
live with Sirius.
He felt as though a rick had dropped into his stomach when Mrs. Weasley turned to him during
dinner on Wednesday evening and said quietly, "I’ve ironed your est clothes for tomorrow
morning, Harry, and I want you to wash your hair tonight, too. A good first impression can work
wonders."
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George and Ginny all stopped talking and looked over at him. Harry
nodded and tried to keep eating his chops, ut his mouth had ecome so dry he could not chew.
"How am I getting there?" he asked Mrs. Weasley, trying to sound unconcerned.
"Arthurs taking you to work with him," said Mrs. Weasley gently.
Mr. Weasley smiled encouragingly at Harry across the tale.
"You can wait in my office until it’s time for the hearing," he said.
Harry looked over at Sirius, ut efore he could ask the question, Mrs. Weasley had answered it.
"Professor Dumledore doesn’t think it’s a good idea for Sirius to go with you, and I must say I -"
"think he’s quite right," said Sirius through clenched teeth.
Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips.
"When did Dumledore tell you that?" Harry said, staring at Sirius.
"He came last night, when you were in ed," said Mr. Weasley.
Sirius staed moodily at a potato with his fork. Harry lowered his own eyes to his plate. The
thought that Dumledore had een in the house on the eve of his hearing and not asked to see
him made him feel, if it were possile, even worse.
CHAPTER SEVEN
The Ministry of Magic
Harry awoke at half past five the next morning as aruptly and completely as if someody had
yelled in his ear. For a few moments he lay immoile as the prospect of the disciplinary hearing
filled every tiny particle of his rain, then, unale to ear it, he leapt out of ed and put on his
glasses. Mrs. Weasley had laid out his freshly laundered jeans and T-shirt at the foot of his ed.
Harry scramled into them. The lank picture on the wall sniggered.
Ron was lying sprawled on his ack with his mouth wide open, fast asleep. He did not stir as
Harry crossed the room, stepped out on to the landing and closed the door softly ehind him.
Trying not to think of the next time he would see Ron, when they might no longer e fellow
students at Hogwarts, Harry walked quietly down the stairs, past the heads of Kreacher’s
ancestors, and down into the kitchen.
He had expected it to e empty, ut when he reached the door he heard the soft rumle of voices
on the other side. He pushed it open and saw Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, Sirius, Lupin and Tonks
sitting there almost as though they were waiting for him. All were fully dressed except Mrs.
Weasley, who was wearing a quilted purple dressing gown. She leapt to her feet the moment
Harry entered.
"Breakfast," she said as she pulled out her wand and hurried over to the fire.
"M - m - morning, Harry," yawned Tonks. Her hair was londe and curly this morning. "Sleep all right?"
"Yeah," said Harry.
"I’ve  -  - een up all night," she said, with another shuddering yawn. "Come and sit down..."
She drew out a chair, knocking over the one eside it in the process.
"What do you want, Harry?" Mrs. Weasley called. "Porridge? Muffins? Kippers? Bacon and
eggs? Toast?"
"Just - just toast, thanks," said Harry.
Lupin glanced at Harry, then said to Tonks, "What were you saying aout Scrimgeour?"
"Oh... yeah... well, we need to e a it more careful, he’s een asking Kingsley and me funny
questions..."
Harry felt vaguely grateful that he was not required to join in the conversation. His insides were
squirming. Mrs. Weasley placed a couple of pieces of toast and marmalade in front of him; he
tried to eat, ut it was like chewing carpet. Mrs. Weasley sat down on his other side and started
fussing with his T-shirt, tucking in the lael and smoothing out the creases across his shoulders.
He wished she wouldn’t.
"... and I’ll have to tell Dumledore I can’t do night duty tomorrow, I’m just too tired," Tonks
finished, yawning hugely again.
"I’ll cover for you," said Mr. Weasley. "I’m okay, I’ve got a report to finish anyway."
Mr. Weasley was not wearing wizards’ roes ut a pair of pinstriped trousers and an old omer
jacket. He turned from Tonks to Harry.
"How are you feeling?"
Harry shrugged.
"It’ll all e over soon," Mr. Weasley said racingly. "In a few hours time you’ll e cleared."
Harry said nothing.
"The hearing’s on my floor, in Amelia Bones’s office. She’s Head of the Department of Magical
Law Enforcement, and the one who’ll e questioning you."
"Amelia Bones is okay, Harry," said Tonks earnestly. "She’s fair, she’ll hear you out."
Harry nodded, still unale to think of anything to say.
"Don’t lose your temper," said Sirius aruptly. "Be polite and stick to the facts."
Harry nodded again.
"The law’s on your side," said Lupin quietly. "Even underage wizards are allowed to use magic in life-threatening situations."
Something very cold trickled down the ack of Harry’s neck; for a moment he thought someone
was putting a Disillusionment Charm on him, then he realized that Mrs. Weasley was attacking
his hair with a wet com. She pressed hard on the top of his head.
"Doesn’t it ever lie flat?" she said desperately.
Harry shook his head.
Mr. Weasley checked his watch and looked up at Harry.
"I think we’ll go now," he said. "We’re a it early ut I think you’ll e etter off at the Ministry
than hanging around here."
"Okay," said Harry automatically, dropping his toast and getting to his feet.
"You’ll e all right, Harry," said Tonks, patting him on the arm.
"Good luck," said Lupin. "I’m sure it will e fine." ‘
"And if it’s not," said Sirius grimly "I’ll see to Amelia Bones for you..."
Harry smiled weakly. Mrs. Weasley hugged him.
"We’ve all got our fingers crossed," she said.
"Right," said Harry. "Well... see you later then."
He followed Mr. Weasley upstairs and along the hall. He could hear Sirius’s mother grunting in
her sleep ehind her curtains. Mr. Weasley unolted the door and they stepped out into the cold,
grey dawn.
"You don’t normally walk to work, do you?" Harry asked him, as they set off riskly around the
square.
"No, I usually Apparate," said Mr. Weasley, "ut oviously you can’t, and I think it’s est we
arrive in a thoroughly non-magical fashion... makes a etter impression, given what you’re
eing disciplined for..."
Mr. Weasley kept his hand inside his jacket as they walked. Harry knew it was clenched around
his wand. The run-down streets were almost deserted, ut when they arrived at the miserale
little underground station they found it already full of early-morning commuters. As ever when
he found himself in close proximity to Muggles going aout their daily usiness, Mr. Weasley
was hard put to contain his enthusiasm.
"Simply faulous," he whispered, indicating the automatic ticket machines. "Wonderfully
ingenious."
"They’re out of order," said Harry, pointing at the sign.
"Yes, ut even so..." said Mr. Weasley, eaming at them fondly
They ought their tickets instead from a sleepy-looking guard (Harry handled the transaction, as
Mr. Weasley was not very good with Muggle money) and five minutes later they were oarding
an underground train that rattled them off towards the center of London. Mr. Weasley kept
anxiously checking and re-checking the Underground Map aove the windows.
"Four more stops, Harry... Three stops left now... Two stops to go, Harry..."
They got off at a station in the very heart of London, and were swept from the train in a tide of
esuited men and women carrying riefcases. Up the escalator they went, through the ticket
arrier (Mr. Weasley delighted with the way the stile swallowed his ticket), and emerged on to a
road street lined with imposing-looking uildings and already full of traffic.
"Where are we?" said Mr. Weasley lankly, and for one heart-stopping moment Harry thought
they had got off at the wrong station despite Mr. Weasley’s continual references to the map; ut
a second later he said, "Ah yes... this way, Harry," and led him down a side road.
"Sorry," he said, "ut I never come y train and it all looks rather different from a Muggle
perspective. As a matter of fact, I’ve never even used the visitors’ entrance efore."
The further they walked, the smaller and less imposing the uildings ecame, until finally they
reached a street that contained several rather shay-looking offices, a pu and an overflowing
dumpster. Harry had expected a rather more impressive location for the Ministry of Magic.
"Here we are," said Mr. Weasley rightly, pointing at an old red telephone ox, which was
missing several panes of glass and stood efore a heavily graffitied wall. "After you, Harry."
He opened the telephone-ox door.
Harry stepped inside, wondering what on earth this was aout. Mr. Weasley folded himself in
eside Harry and closed the door. It was a tight fit; Harry was jammed against the telephone
apparatus, which was hanging crookedly from the wall as though a vandal had tried to rip it off.
Mr. Weasley reached past Harry for the receiver.
"Mr. Weasley, I think this might e out of order, too," Harry said.
"No, no, I’m sure it’s fine," said Mr. Weasley, holding the receiver aove his head and peering at
the dial. "Let’s see... six..." he dialed the numer, "two... four... and another four... and
another two..."
As the dial whirred smoothly ack into place, a cool female voice sounded inside the telephone
ox, not from the receiver in Mr. Weasley’s hand, ut as loudly and plainly as though an
invisile woman were standing right eside them.
"Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and usiness."
"Er..." said Mr. Weasley, clearly uncertain whether or not he should talk into the receiver. He
compromised y holding the mouthpiece to his ear, "Arthur Weasley, Misuse of Muggle
Artifacts Office, here to escort Harry Potter, who has een asked to attend a disciplinary hearing..."
"Thank you," said the cool female voice. "Visitor, please take the adge and attach it to the front
of your roes."
There was a click and a rattle, and Harry saw something slide out of the metal chute where
returned coins usually appeared. He picked it up: it was a square silver adge with Harry Potter,
Disciplinary Hearing on it. He pinned it to the front of his T-shirt as the female voice spoke
again.
"Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to sumit to a search and present your wand for
registration at the security desk, which is located at the far end of the Atrium."
The floor of the telephone ox shuddered. They were sinking slowly into the ground. Harry
watched apprehensively as the pavement seemed to rise up past the glass windows of the
telephone ox until darkness closed over their heads. Then he could see nothing at all; he could
hear only a dull grinding noise as the telephone ox made its way down through the earth. After
aout a minute, though it felt much longer to Harry, a chink of golden light illuminated his feet
and, widening, rose up his ody, until it hit him in the face and he had to link to stop his eyes
from watering.
"The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant day," said the woman’s voice.
The door of the telephone ox sprang open and Mr. Weasley stepped out of it, followed y
Harry, whose mouth had fallen open.
They were standing at one end of a very long and splendid hall with a highly polished, dark
wood floor. The peacock lue ceiling was inlaid with gleaming golden symols that kept moving
and changing like some enormous heavenly notice oard. The walls on each side were paneled in
shiny dark wood and had many gilded fireplaces set into them. Every few seconds a witch or
wizard would emerge from one of the left-hand fireplaces with a soft whoosh. On the right-hand
side, short queues of wizards were forming efore each fireplace, waiting to depart.
Halfway down the hall was a fountain. A group of golden statues, larger than life-size, stood in
the middle of a circular pool. Tallest of them all was a nole-looking wizard with his wand
pointing straight up in the air. Grouped around him were a eautiful witch, a centaur, a golin
and a house-elf. The last three were all looking adoringly up at the witch and wizard. Glittering
jets of water were flying from the ends of their wands, the point of the centaur’s arrow, the tip of
the golins hat and each of the house-elf’s ears, so that the tinkling hiss of falling water was
added to the pops and cracks of the Apparators and the clatter of footsteps as hundreds of
witches and wizards, most of whom were wearing glum, early-morning looks, strode towards a
set of golden gates at the far end of the hall.
"This way," said Mr. Weasley.
They joined the throng, wending their way etween the Ministry workers, some of whom were
carrying tottering piles of parchment, others attered riefcases; still others were reading the
Daily Prophet while they walked. As they passed the fountain Harry saw silver Sickles and
ronze Knuts glinting up at him from the ottom of the pool. A small smudged sign eside it
read:
ALL PROCEEDS FROM THE FOUNTAIN OF MAGICAL BRETHREN WILL BE GIVEN
TO ST. MUNGO’S HOSPITAL FOR MAGICAL MALADIES AND INJURIES.
If I’m not expelled from Hogwarts, I’ll put in ten Galleons, Harry found himself thinking
desperately.
"Over here, Harry," said Mr. Weasley, and they stepped out of the stream of Ministry employees
heading for the golden gates. Seated at a desk to the left, eneath a sign saying Security, a adly shaven wizard in peacock lue roes looked up as they approached and put down his Daily
Prophet.
"I’m escorting a visitor," said Mr. Weasley, gesturing towards Harry.
"Step over here," said the wizard in a ored voice.
Harry walked closer to him and the wizard held up a long golden rod, thin and flexile as a car
aerial, and passed it up and down Harry’s front and ack.
"Wand," grunted the security wizard at Harry, putting down the golden instrument and holding
out his hand.
Harry produced his wand. The wizard dropped it on to a strange rass instrument, which looked
something like a set of scales with only one dish. It egan to virate. A narrow strip of
parchment came speeding out of a slit in the ase. The wizard tore this off and read the writing
on it.
"Eleven inches, phoenix-feather core, een in use four years. That correct?"
"Yes," said Harry nervously.
"I keep this," said the wizard, impaling the slip of parchment on a small rass spike. "You get this ack," he added, thrusting the wand at Harry.
"Thank you."
"Hang on..." said the wizard slowly.
His eyes had darted from the silver visitors adge on Harry’s chest to his forehead.
"Thank you, Eric," said Mr. Weasley firmly, and grasping Harry y the shoulder he steered him
away from the desk and ack into the stream of wizards and witches walking through the golden
gates.
Jostled slightly y the crowd, Harry followed Mr. Weasley through the gates into the smaller hall
eyond, where at least twenty lifts stood ehind wrought golden grilles. Harry and Mr. Weasley
joined the crowd around one of them. Neary, stood a ig earded wizard holding a large
cardoard ox which was emitting rasping noises.
"All right, Arthur?" said the wizard, nodding at Mr. Weasley.
"What’ve you got there, Bo?" asked Mr. Weasley, looking at the ox.
"We’re not sure," said the wizard seriously. "We thought it was a og-standard chicken until it
started reathing fire. Looks like a serious reach of the Ban on Experimental Breeding to me."
With a great jangling and clattering a lift descended in front of them; the golden grille slid ack
and Harry and Mr. Weasley stepped into the lift with the rest of the crowd and Harry found
himself jammed against the ack wall. Several witches and wizards were looking at him
curiously; he stared at his feet to avoid catching anyone’s eye, flattening his fringe as he did so.
The grilles slid shut with a crash and the lift ascended slowly, chains rattling, while the same
cool female voice Harry had heard in the telephone ox rang out again.
"Level Seven, Department of Magical Games and Sports, incorporating the British and Irish
Quidditch League Headquarters, Official Gostones Clu and Ludicrous Patents Office."
The lift doors opened. Harry glimpsed an untidy-looking corridor, with various posters of
Quidditch teams tacked lopsidedly on the walls. One of the wizards in the lift, who was carrying
an armful of roomsticks, extricated himself with difficulty and disappeared down the corridor.
The doors closed, the lift juddered upwards again and the woman’s voice announced:
"Level Six, Department of Magical Transportation, incorporating the Floo Network Authority,
Broom Regulatory Control, Portkey Office and Apparation Test Center."
Once again the lift doors opened and four or five witches and wizards got out; at the same time,
several paper aeroplanes swooped into the lift. Harry stared up at them as they flapped idly
around aove his head; they were a pale violet color and he could see Ministry of Magic
stamped along the edge of their wings.
"Just inter-departmental memos," Mr. Weasley muttered to him. "We used to use owls, ut the
mess was unelievale... droppings all over the desks..."
As they clattered upwards again the memos flapped around the lamp swaying from the lift’s
ceiling.
"Level Five, Department of International Magical Co -operation, incorporating the International
Magical Trading Standards Body, the International Magical Office of Law and the International
Confederation of Wizards, British Seats."
When the doors opened, two of the memos zoomed out with a few more of the witches and
wizards, ut several more memos zoomed in, so that the light from the lamp flickered and
flashed overhead as they darted around it.
"Level Four, Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, incorporating
Beast, Being and Spirit Divisions, Golin Liaison Office and Pest Advisory Bureau."
"S’cuse," said the wizard carrying the fire-reathing chicken and he left the lift pursued y a little flock of memos. The doors clanged shut yet again.
"Level Three, Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes, including the Accidental
Magic Reversal Squad, Oliviator Headquarters and Muggle-Worthy Excuse Committee."
Everyody left the lift on this floor except Mr. Weasley, Harry and a witch who was reading an
extremely long piece of parchment that was trailing on the floor. The remaining memos
continued to soar around the lamp as the lift juddered upwards again, then the doors opened and
the voice made its announcement.
"Level Two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, including the Improper Use of Magic
Office, Auror Headquarters and Wizengamot Administration Services."
"This is us, Harry," said Mr. Weasley, and they followed the witch out of the lift into a corridor
lined with doors. "My office is on the other side o f the floor."
"Mr. Weasley" said Harry, as they passed a window through which sunlight was streaming,
"aren’t we still underground?"
"Yes, we are," said Mr. Weasley. "Those are enchanted windows. Magical Maintenance decide
what weather we’ll get every day. We had two months of hurricanes last time they were angling
for a pay rise... Just round here, Harry."
They turned a corner, walked through a pair of heavy oak doors and emerged in a cluttered open
area divided into cuicles, which was uzzing with talk and laughter. Memos were zooming in
and out of cuicles like miniature rockets. A lopsided sign on the nearest cuicle read: Auror
Headquarters.
Harry looked surreptitiously through the doorways as they passed. The Aurors had covered their
cuicle walls with everything from pictures of wanted wizards and photographs of their families,
to posters of their favorite Quidditch teams and articles from the Daily Prophet. A scarlet-roed
man with a ponytail longer than Bill’s was sitting with his oots up on his desk, dictating a report
to his quill. A little further along, a witch with a patch over one eye was talking over the top of
her cuicle wall to Kingsley Shackleolt.
"Morning, Weasley," said Kingsley carelessly, as they drew nearer. "I’ve een wanting a word
with you, have you got a second?"
"Yes, if it really is a second," said Mr. Weasley, "I’m in rather a hurry."
They were talking as though they hardly knew each other and when Harry opened his mouth to
say hello to Kingsley, Mr. Weasley stood on his foot. They followed Kingsley along the row and
into the very last cuicle.
Harry received a slight shock; linking down at him from every direction was Sirius’s face.
Newspaper cuttings and old photographs - even the one of Sirius eing est man at the Potters’
wedding -papered the walls. The only Sirius-free space was a map of the world in which little red
pins were glowing like jewels.
"Here," said Kingsley rusquely to Mr. Weasley, shoving a sheaf of parchment into his hand. "I
need as much information as possile on flying Muggle vehicles sighted in the last twelve
months. We’ve received information that Black might still e using his old motorcycle."
Kingsley tipped Harry an enormous wink and added, in a whisper, "Give him the magazine, he
might find it interesting." Then he said in normal tones, "And don’t take too long, Weasley, the
delay on that firelegs report held our investigation up for a month."
"If you had read my report you would know that the term is firearms," said Mr. Weasley coolly.
"And I’m afraid you’ll have to wait for information on motorcycles; we’re extremely usy at the
moment." He dropped his voice and said, "If you can get away efore seven, Molly’s making
meatalls."
He eckoned to Harry and led him out of Kingsley’s cuicle, through a second set of oak doors,
into another passage, turned left, marched along another corridor, turned right into a dimly lit and
distinctly shay corridor, and finally reached a dead end, where a door on the left stood ajar,
revealing a room cupoard, and a door on the right ore a tarnished rass plaque reading:
Misuse of Muggle Artifacts.
Mr. Weasley’s dingy office seemed to e slightly smaller than the room cupoard. Two desks
had een crammed inside it and there was arely space to move around them ecause of all the
overflowing filing cainets lining the walls, on top of which were tottering piles of files. The
little wall space availale ore witness to Mr. Weasley’s osessions: several posters of cars,
including one of a dismantled engine; two illustrations of postoxes he seemed to have cut out of
Muggle children’s ooks; and a diagram showing how to wire a plug.
Sitting on top of Mr. Weasley’s overflowing in-tray was an old toaster that was hiccoughing in a
disconsolate way and a pair of empty leather gloves that were twiddling their thums. A
photograph of the Weasley family stood eside the in-tray. Harry noticed that Percy appeared to
have walked out of it.
"We haven’t got a window," said Mr. Weasley apologetically, taking off his omer jacket and
placing it on the ack of his chair. "We’ve asked, ut they don’t seem to think we need one. Have a seat, Harry, doesn’t look as if Perkins is in yet."
Harry squeezed himself into the chair ehind Perkins’s desk while Mr. Weasley riffled through
the sheaf of parchment Kingsley Shackleolt had given him.
"Ah," he said, grinning, as he extracted a copy of a magazine entitled The Quiler from its
midst, "yes..." He flicked through it. "Yes, he’s right, I’m sure Sirus will find that very amusing - oh dear, what’s this now?"
A memo had just zoomed in through the open door and fluttered to rest on top of the hiccoughing
toaster. Mr. Weasley unfolded it and read it aloud.
"‘Third regurgitating pulic toilet reported in Bethnal Green, kindly investigate immediately.’
This is getting ridiculous..."
"A regurgitating toilet?"
"Anti-Muggle pranksters," said Mr. Weasley, frowning. "We had two last week, one in
Wimledon, one in Elephant and Castle. Muggles are pulling the flush and instead of everything
disappearing - well, you can imagine. The poor things keep calling in those - pumles, I think
they’re called - you know, the ones who mend pipes and things."
"Plumers?"
"Exactly, yes, ut of course they’re flummoxed. I only hope we can catch whoever’s doing it."
"Will it e Aurors who catch them?"
"Oh no, this is too trivial for Aurors, it’ll e the ordinary Magical Law Enforcement Patrol - ah,
Harry, this is Perkins."
A stooped, timid-looking old wizard with fluffy white hair had just entered the room, panting.
"Oh, Arthur!" he said desperately, without looking at Harry. "Thank goodness, I didn’t know
what to do for the est, whether to wait here for you or not. I’ve just sent an owl to your home
ut you’ve oviously missed it - an urgent message came ten minutes ago -"
"I know aout the regurgitating toilet," said Mr. Weasley.
"No, no, it’s not the toilet, it’s the Potter oy’s hearing - they’ve changed the time and venue - it
starts at eight o’clock now and it’s down in old Courtroom Ten -"
"Down in old - ut they told me - Merlin’s eard!"
Mr. Weasley looked at his watch, let out a yelp and leapt from his chair.
"Quick, Harry, we should have een there five minutes ago!"
Perkins flattened himself against the filing cainets as Mr. Weasley left the office at a run, Harry
close on his heels.
"Why have they changed the time?" Harry said reathlessly, as they hurtled past the Auror
cuicles; people poked out their heads and stared as they streaked past. Harry felt as though he’d
left all his insides ack at Perkins’s desk.
"I’ve no idea, ut thank goodness we got here so early, if you’d missed it, it would have een
catastrophic!"
Mr. Weasley skidded to a halt eside the lifts and jaed impatiently at the ‘down’ utton.
"Come ON!"
The lift clattered into view and they hurried inside. Every time it stopped Mr. Weasley cursed
furiously and pummeled the numer nine utton.
"Those courtrooms haven’t een used in years," said Mr. Weasley angrily. "I can’t think why
they’re doing it down there - unless - ut no -"
A plump witch carrying a smoking golet entered the lift at that moment, and Mr. Weasley did
not elaorate.
"The Atrium," said the cool female voice and the golden grilles slid open, showing Harry a
distant glimpse of the golden statues in the fountain. The plump witch got out and a sallow skinned wizard with a very mournful face got in.
"Morning, Arthur," he said in a sepulchral voice as the lift egan to descend. "Don’t often see you down here."
"Urgent usiness, Bode," said Mr. Weasley, who was ouncing on the alls of his feet and
throwing anxious looks over at Harry.
"Ah, yes," said Bode, surveying Harry unlinkingly. "Of course."
Harry arely had emotion to spare for Bode, ut his unfaltering gaze did not make him feel any
more comfortale.
"Department of Mysteries," said the cool female voice, and left it at that.
"Quick, Harry," said Mr. Weasley as the lift doors rattled open, and they sped up a corridor that
was quite different from those aove. The walls were are; there were no windows and no doors
apart from a plain lack one set at the very end of the corridor. Harry expected them to go
through it, ut instead Mr. Weasley seized him y the arm and dragged him to the left, where
there was an opening leading to a flight of steps.
"Down here, down here," panted Mr. Weasley, taking two steps at a time. "The lift doesn’t even
come down this far... why they’re doing it down there I..."
They reached the ottom of the steps and ran along yet another corridor, which ore a great
resemlance to the one that led to Snape’s dungeon at Hogwarts, with rough stone walls and
torches in rackets. The doors they passed here were heavy wooden ones with iron olts and
keyholes.
"Courtroom... Ten... I think... we’re nearly... yes."
Mr. Weasley stumled to a halt outside a grimy dark door with an immense iron lock and
slumped against the wall, clutching at a stitch in his chest.
"Go on," he panted, pointing his thum at the door. "Get in there."
"Aren’t - aren’t you coming with -"
"No, no, I’m not allowed. Good luck!"
Harry’s heart was eating a violent tattoo against his Adam’s apple. He swallowed hard, turned
the heavy iron door handle and stepped inside the courtroom.
CHAPTER EIGHT
The Hearing
Harry gasped; he could not help himself. The large dungeon he had entered was horrily
familiar. He had not only seen it efore, he had een here efore. This was the place he had
visited inside Dumledore’s Pensieve, the place where he had watched the Lestranges sentenced
to life imprisonment in Azkaan.
The walls were made of dark stone, dimly lit y torches. Empty enches rose on either side of
him, ut ahead, in the highest enches of all, were many shadowy figures. They had een talking
in low voices, ut as the heavy door swung closed ehind Harry an ominous silence fell.
A cold male voice rang across the courtroom.
"You’re late."
"Sorry," said Harry nervously "I -- I didn’t know the time had een changed."
"That is not the Wizengamot’s fault," said the voice. "An owl was sent to you this morning. Take your seat."
Harry dropped his gaze to the chair in the center of the room, the arms of which were covered in
chains. He had seen those chains spring to life and ind whoever sat etween them. His footsteps
echoed loudly as he walked across the stone floor. When he sat gingerly on the edge of the chair
the chains clinked threateningly, ut did not ind him. Feeling rather sick, he looked up at the
people seated at the ench aove.
There were aout fifty of them, all, as far as he could see, wearing plum-colored roes with an
elaorately worked silver W on the left-hand side of the chest and all staring down their noses at
him, some with very austere expressions, others looks of frank curiosity.
In the very middle of the front row sat Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic. Fudge was a
portly man who often sported a lime-green owler hat, though today he had dispensed with it; he
had dispensed, too, with the indulgent smile he had once worn when he spoke to Harry. A road,
square-jawed witch with very short grey hair sat on Fudge’s left; she wore a monocle and looked
foridding. On Fudge’s right was another witch, ut she was sitting so far ack on the ench that
her face was in shadow.
"Very well," said Fudge. "The accused eing present - finally - let us egin. Are you ready?" he
called down the row.
"Yes, sir," said an eager voice Harry knew. Ron’s rother Percy was sitting at the very end of the
front ench. Harry looked at Percy, expecting some sign of recognition from him, ut none
came. Percy’s eyes, ehind his horn-rimmed glasses, were fixed on his parchment, a quill poised
in his hand.
"Disciplinary hearing of the twelfth of August," said Fudge in a ringing voice, and Percy egan
taking notes at once, "into offences committed under the Decree for the Reasonale Restriction of Underage Sorcery and the International Statute of Secrecy y Harry James Potter, resident at
numer four, Privet Drive, Little Whinging, Surrey.
"Interrogators: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister for Magic; Amelia Susan Bones, Head of the
Department of Magical Law Enforcement; Dolores Jane Umridge, Senior Undersecretary to the
Minister. Court Scrie, Percy Ignatius Weasley -"
"Witness for the defense, Alus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumledore," said a quiet voice from
ehind Harry, who turned his head so fast he cricked his neck.
Dumledore was striding serenely across the room wearing long midnight-lue roes and a
perfectly calm expression. His long silver eard and hair gleamed in the torchlight as he drew
level with Harry and looked up at Fudge through the half-moon spectacles that rested halfway
down his very crooked nose.
The memers of the Wizengamot were muttering. All eyes were now on Dumledore. Some
looked annoyed, others slightly frightened; two elderly witches in the ack row, however, raised
their hands and waved in welcome.
A powerful emotion had risen in Harry’s chest at the sight of Dumledore, a fortified, hopeful
feeling rather like that which phoenix song gave him. He wanted to catch Dumledore’s eye, ut
Dumledore was not looking his way; he was continuing to look up at the oviously flustered
Fudge.
"Ah," said Fudge, who looked thoroughly disconcerted. "Dumledore. Yes. You - er - got our - er - message that the time and -er - place of the hearing had een changed, then?"
"I must have missed it," said Dumledore cheerfully..."However, due to a lucky mistake I arrived at the Ministry three hours early, so no harm done."
"Yes - well - I suppose we’ll need another chair - I - Weasley, could you -?"
"Not to worry, not to worry," said Dumledore pleasantly; he took out his wand, gave it a little
flick, and a squashy chintz armchair appeared out of nowhere next to Harry. Dumledore sat
down, put the tips of his long fingers together and surveyed Fudge over them with an expression
of polite interest. The Wizengamot was still muttering and fidgeting restlessly; only when Fudge
spoke again did they settle down.
"Yes," said Fudge again, shuffling his notes. "Well, then. So. The charges. Yes."
He extricated a piece of parchment from the pile efore him, took a deep reath, and read out,
"the charges against the accused are as follows: That he did knowingly, delierately and in full
awareness of the illegality of his actions, having received a previous written warning from the
Ministry of Magic on a similar charge, produce a Patronus Charm in a Muggle-inhaited area, in
the presence of a Muggle, on the second of August at twenty-three minutes past nine, which
constitutes an offence under Paragraph C of the Decree for the Reasonale Restriction of
Underage Sorcery, 1875, and also under Section 13 of the International Confederation of
Warlocks’ Statute of Secrecy.
"You are Harry James Potter, of numer four, Privet Drive, Little Whinging, Surrey?" Fudge said, glaring at Harry over the top of his parchment.
"Yes," Harry said.
"You received an official warning from the Ministry for using illegal magic three years ago, did
you not?"
"Yes, ut -"
"And yet you conjured a Patronus on the night of the second of August?" said Fudge.
"Yes," said Harry, "ut -"
"Knowing that you are not permitted to use magic outside school while you are under the age of
seventeen?"
"Yes, ut -"
"Knowing that you were in an area full of Muggles?"
"Yes, ut -"
"Fully aware that you were in close proximity to a Muggle at the time?"
"Yes," said Harry angrily, "ut I only used it ecause we were -"
The witch with the monocle cut across him in a ooming voice.
"You produced a fully-fledged Patronus?"
"Yes," said Harry, "ecause -"
"A corporeal Patronus?"
"A - what?" said Harry.
"Your Patronus had a clearly defined form? I mean t o say, it was more than vapour or smoke?"
"Yes," said Harry, feeling oth impatient and slightly desperate, "it’s a stag, it’s always a stag."
"Always?" oomed Madam Bones. "You have produced a Patronus efore now?"
"Yes," said Harry, "I’ve een doing it for over a year."
"And you are fifteen years old?"
"Yes, and -"
"You learned this at school?"
"Yes, Professor Lupin taught me in my third year, ecause of the -"
"Impressive," said Madam Bones, staring down at him, "a true Patronus at his age... very
impressive indeed."
Some of the wizards and witches around her were muttering again; a few nodded, ut others
were frowning and shaking their heads.
"It’s not a question of how impressive the magic was," said Fudge in a testy voice, "in fact, the
more impressive the worse it is, I would have thought, given that the oy did it in plain view of a
Muggle!"
Those who had een frowning now murmured in agreement, ut it was the sight of Percy’s
sanctimonious little nod that goaded Harry into speech.
"I did it ecause of the Dementors!" he said loudly, efore anyone could interrupt him again.
He had expected more muttering, ut the silence that fell seemed to e somehow denser than
efore.
"Dementors?" said Madam Bones after a moment, her thick eyerows rising until her monocle
looked in danger of falling out. "What do you mean, oy?"
"I mean there were two Dementors down that alleyway and they went for me and my cousin!"
"Ah," said Fudge again, smirking unpleasantly as he looked around at the Wizengamot, as though inviting them to share the joke. "Yes. Yes, I thought we’d e hearing something like this."
"Dementors in Little Whinging?" Madam Bones said, in a tone of great surprise. "I don’t
understand -"
"Don’t you, Amelia?" said Fudge, still smirking. "Let me explain. He’s een thinking it through
and decided Dementors would make a very nice little cover story, very nice indeed. Muggles
can’t see Dementors, can they, oy? Highly convenient, highly convenient... so it’s just your
word and no witnesses..."
"I’m not lying!" said Harry loudly, over another outreak of muttering from the court. "There were two of them, coming from opposite ends of the alley, everything went dark and cold and my cousin felt them and ran for it -"
"Enough, enough!" said Fudge, with a very supercilious look on his face. "I’m sorry to interrupt
what I’m sure would have een a very well-rehearsed story -"
Dumledore cleared his throat. The Wizengamot fell silent again.
"We do, in fact, have a witness to the presence of Dementors in that alleyway," he said, "other than Dudley Dursley, I mean."
Fudge’s plump face seemed to slacken, as though someody had let air out of it. He stared down
at Dumledore for a moment or two, then, with the appearance of a man pulling himself ack
together, said, "We haven’t got time to listen to more tarradiddles, I’m afraid, Dumledore. I want this dealt with quickly -"
"I may e wrong," said Dumledore pleasantly, "ut I am sure that under the Wizengamot Charter of Rights, the accused has the right to present witnesses for his or her case? Isn’t that the policy of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Madam Bones?" he continued, addressing the witch in the monocle.
"True," said Madam Bones. "Perfectly true."
"Oh, very well, very well," snapped Fudge. "Where is this person?"
"I rought her with me," said Dumledore. "She’s just outside the door. Should I -?"
"No -- Weasley, you go," Fudge arked at Percy, who got up at once, ran down the stone steps
from the judge’s alcony and hurried past Dumledore and Harry without glancing at them.
A moment later, Percy returned, followed y Mrs. Figg. She looked scared and more atty than
ever. Harry wished she had thought to change out of her carpet slippers.
Dumledore stood up and gave Mrs. Figg his chair, conjuring a second one for himself.
"Full name?" said Fudge loudly, when Mrs. Figg had perched herself nervously on the very edge
of her seal.
"Araella Doreen Figg," said Mrs. Figg in her quavery voice.
"And who exactly are you?" said Fudge, in a ored and lofty voice.
"I’m a resident of Little Whinging, close to where Harry Potter lives," said Mrs. Figg.
"We have no record of any witch or wizard living in Little Whinging, other than Harry Potter,"
said Madam Bones at once. "That situation has always een closely monitored, given... given
past events."
"I’m a Squi," said Mrs. Figg. "So you wouldn’t have me registered, would you?"
"A Squi, eh?" said Fudge, eyeing her closely. "We’ll e checking that. You’ll leave details of your parentage with my assistant Weasley. Incidentally, can Squis see Dementors?" he added,
looking left and right along the ench.
"Yes, we can!" said Mrs. Figg indignantly.
Fudge looked ack down at her, his eyerows raised. "Very well," he said aloofly. "What is your
story?"
"I had gone out to uy cat food from the corner shop at the end of Wisteria Walk, around aout
nine o’clock, on the evening of the second of August," galed Mrs. Figg at once, as though she
had learned what she was saying y heart, "when I heard a disturance down the alleyway
etween Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk. On approaching the mouth of the alleyway I saw
Dementors running -"
"Running?" said Madam Bones sharply. "Dementors don’t run, they glide."
"That’s what I meant to say," said Mrs. Figg quickly, patches of pink appearing in her withered
cheeks. "Gliding along the alley towards what looked like two oys."
"What did they look like?" said Madam Bones, narrowing her eyes so that the edge of the
monocle disappeared into her flesh.
"Well, one was very large and the other one rather skinny -"
"No, no," said Madam Bones impatiently. "The Dementors... descrie them."
"Oh," said Mrs. Figg, the pink flush creeping up her neck now. "They were ig. Big and wearing
cloaks."
Harry felt a horrile sinking in the pit of his stomach. Whatever Mrs. Figg might say, it sounded
to him as though the most she had ever seen was a picture of a Dementor, and a picture could
never convey the truth of what these eings were like: the eerie way they moved, hovering
inches over the ground; or the rotting smell of them; or that terrile rattling noise they made as
they sucked on the surrounding air...
In the second row, a dumpy wizard with a large lack moustache leaned close to whisper in the
ear of his neighor, a frizzy-haired witch. She smirked and nodded.
"Big and wearing cloaks," repeated Madam Bones coolly, while Fudge snorted derisively. "I see. Anything else?"
"Yes," said Mrs. Figg. "I felt them. Everything went cold, and this was a very warm summer’s
night, mark you. And I felt... as though all happiness had gone from the world... and I
rememered... dreadful things..."
Her voice shook and died.
Madam Bones’s eyes widened slightly. Harry could see red marks under her eyerow where the
monocle had dug into it.
"What did the Dementors do?" she asked, and Harry felt a rush of hope.
"They went for the oys," said Mrs. Figg, her voice stronger and more confident now, the pink
flush eing away from her face. "One of them had fallen. The other was acking away, trying to
repel the Dementor. That was Harry. He tried twice and produced only silver vapour. On the
third attempt, he produced a Patronus, which charged down the first Dementor and then, with his
encouragement, chased the second one away from his cousin. And that that is what happened,"
Mrs. Figg finished, somewhat lamely.
Madam Bones looked down at Mrs. Figg in silence. Fudge was not looking at her at all, ut
fidgeting with his papers. Finally, he raised his eyes and said, rather aggressively, "that’s what
you saw, is it?"
"That is what happened," Mrs. Figg repeated.
"Very well," said Fudge. "You may go."
Mrs. Figg cast a frightened look from Fudge to Dumledore, then got up and shuffled off
towards the door. Harry heard it thud shut ehind her.
"Not a very convincing witness," said Fudge loftily.
"Oh, I don’t know," said Madam Bones, in her ooming voice. "She certainly descried the effects of a Dementor attack very accurately. And I can’t imagine why she would say they were there if they weren’t."
"But Dementors wandering into a Muggle suur and just happening to come across a wizard?"
snorted Fudge. "The odds on that must e very, very long. Even Bagman wouldn’t have et -"
"Oh, I don’t think any of us elieve the Dementors were there y coincidence," said Dumledore
lightly.
The witch sitting to the right of Fudge, with her face in shadow, moved slightly ut everyone
else was quite still and silent.
"And what is that supposed to mean?" Fudge asked icily.
"It means that I think they were ordered there," said Dumledore.
"I think we might have a record of it if someone had ordered a pair of Dementors to go strolling
through Little Whanging!" arked Fudge.
"Not if the Dementors are taking orders from someone other than the Ministry of Magic these
days," said Dumledore calmly. "I have already given you my views on this matter, Cornelius."
"Yes, you have"‘ said Fudge forcefully, "and I have no reason to elieve that your views are
anything other than ilge, Dumledore. The Dementors remain in place in Azkaan and are
doing everything we ask them to."
"Then," said Dumledore, quietly ut clearly, "we must ask ourselves why someody within the
Ministry ordered a pair of Dementors into that alleyway on the second of August."
In the complete silence that greeted these words, the witch to the right of Fudge leaned forwards
so that Harry saw her for the first time.
He thought she looked just like a large, pale toad. She was rather squat with a road, flay face,
as little neck as Uncle Vernon and a very wide, slack mouth. Her eyes were large, round and
slightly ulging. Even the little lack velvet ow perched on top of her short curly hair put him
in mind of a large fly she was aout to catch on a long sticky tongue.
"The Chair recognizes Dolores Jane Umridge, Senior Undersecretary to the Minister," said
Fudge.
The witch spoke in a fluttery, girlish, high-pitched voice that took Harry aack; he had een
expecting a croak.
"I’m sure I must have misunderstood you, Professor Dumledore," she said, with a simper that left her ig, round eyes as cold as ever. "So silly of me. But it sounded for a teensy moment as though you were suggesting that the Ministry of Magic had ordered an attack on this oy!"
She gave a silvery laugh that made the hairs on the ack of Harry’s neck stand up. A few other
memers of the Wizengamot laughed with her. It could not have een plainer that not one of
them was really amused.
"If it is true that the Dementors are taking orders only from the Ministry of Magic, and it is also
true that two Dementors attacked Harry and his cousin a week ago, then it follows logically that
someody at the Ministry might have ordered the attacks," said Dumledore politely. "Of course,
these particular Dementors may have een outside Ministry control -"
"There are no Dementors outside Ministry control!" snapped Fudge, who had turned rick red.
Dumledore inclined his head in a little ow.
"Then undoutedly the Ministry will e making a full inquiry into why two Dementors were so
very far from Azkaan and why they attacked without authorization."
"It is not for you to decide what the Ministry of Magic does or does not do, Dumledore!"
snapped Fudge, now a shade of magenta of which Uncle Vernon would have een proud.
"Of course it isn’t," said Dumledore mildly. "I was merely expressing my confidence that this
matter will not go uninvestigated."
He glanced at Madam Bones, who readjusted her monocle and stared ack at him, frowning
slightly.
"I would remind everyody that the ehavior of these Dementors, if indeed they are not
figments of this oy’s imagination, is not the suject of this hearing!" said Fudge. "We are here to examine Harry Potter’s offences under the Decree for the Reasonale Restriction of Underage
Sorcery!"
"Of course we are," said Dumledore, "ut the presence of Dementors in that alleyway is highly
relevant. Clause Seven of the Decree states that magic may e used efore Muggles in
exceptional circumstances, and as those exceptional circumstances include situations which
threaten the life of the wizard or witch him - or herself, or any witches, wizards or Muggles
present at the time of the -"
"We are familiar with Clause Seven, thank you very much!" snarled Fudge.
"Of course you are," said Dumledore courteously. "Then we are in agreement that Harry’s use of the Patronus Charm in these circumstances falls precisely into the category of exceptional
circumstances the clause descries?"
"If there were Dementors, which I dout."
"You have heard it from an eyewitness," Dumledore interrupted. "If you still dout her truthfulness, call her ack, question her again. I am sure she would not oject."
"I - that - not -" lustered Fudge, fiddling with the papers efore him. "It’s - I want this over with
today, Dumledore!"
"But naturally, you would not care how many times you heard from a witness, if the alternative
was a serious miscarriage of justice," said Dumledore.
"Serious miscarriage, my hat!" said Fudge at the top of his voice. "Have you ever othered to tot
up the numer of cock-and-ull stories this oy has come out with, Dumledore, while trying to
cover up his flagrant misuse of magic out of school? I suppose you’ve forgotten the Hover
Charm he used three years ago -"
"That wasn’t me, it was a house-elf!" said Harry.
"YOU SEE" roared Fudge, gesturing flamoyantly in Harry’s direction. "A house-elf! In a
Muggle house! I ask you."
"The house-elf in question is currently in the employ of Hogwarts School," said Dumledore. "I
can summon him here in an instant to give evidence if you wish."
"I - not - I haven’t got time to listen to house-elves! Anyway, that’s not the only - he lew up his
aunt, for God’s sake!" Fudge shouted, anging his fist on the judge’s ench and upsetting a ottle of ink.
"And you very kindly did not press charges on that occasion, accepting, I presume, that even the
est wizards cannot always control their emotions," said Dumledore calmly, as Fudge attempted to scru the ink off his notes.
"And I haven’t even started on what he gets up to at school."
"But, as the Ministry has no authority to punish Hogwarts students for misdemeanors at school,
Harry’s ehavior there is not relevant to this hearing," said Dumledore, as politely as ever, ut
now with a suggestion of coolness ehind his words.
"Oho!" said Fudge. "Not our usiness what he does at school, eh? You think so?"
"The Ministry does not have the power to expel Hogwarts students, Cornelius, as I reminded you
on the night of the second of August," said Dumledore. "Nor does it have the right to confiscate wands until charges have een successfully proven; again, as I reminded you on the night of the second of August. In your admirale haste to ensure that the law is upheld, you appear, inadvertently I am sure, to have overlooked a few laws yourself."
"Laws can e changed," said Fudge savagely.
"Of course they can," said Dumledore, inclining his head. "And you certainly seem to e making many changes, Cornelius. Why, in the few short weeks since I was asked to leave the
Wizengamot, it has already ecome the practice to hold a full criminal trial to deal with a simple
matter of underage magic!"
A few of the wizards aove them shifted uncomfortaly in their seats. Fudge turned a slightly
deeper shade of puce. The toadlike witch on his right, however, merely gazed at Dumledore,
her face quite expressionless.
"As far as I am aware," Dumledore continued, "there is no law yet in place that says this court’s
jo is to punish Harry for every it of magic he has ever performed. He has een charged with a
specific offence and he has presented his defense. All he and I can do now is to await your
verdict."
Dumledore put his fingertips together again and said no more. Fudge glared at him, evidently
incensed. Harry glanced sideways at Dumledore, seeking reassurance; he was not at all sure that
Dumledore was right in telling the Wizengamot, in effect, that it was aout time they made a
decision. Again, however, Dumledore seemed olivious to Harry’s attempt to catch his eye. He
continued to look up at the enches where the entire Wizengamot had fallen into urgent,
whispered conversations.
Harry looked at his feet. His heart, which seemed to have swollen to an unnatural size, was
thumping loudly under his ris. He had expected the hearing to last longer than this. He was not
at all sure that he had made a good impression. He had not really said very much. He ought to
have explained more fully aout the Dementors, aout how he had fallen over, aout how oth
he and Dudley had nearly een kissed...
Twice he looked up at Fudge and opened his mouth to speak, ut his swollen heart was now
constricting his air passages and oth times he merely took a deep reath and looked ack down
at his shoes.
Then the whispering stopped. Harry wanted to look up at the judges, ut found that it was really
much, much easier to keep examining his laces.
"Those in favor of clearing the witness of all charges?" said Madam Boness ooming voice.
Harry’s head jerked upwards. There were hands in the air, many of them... more than half!
Breathing very fast, he tried to count, ut efore he could finish, Madam Bones had said, "And
those in favor of conviction?"
Fudge raised his hand; so did half a dozen others, including the witch on his right and the
heavily-moustached wizard and the frizzy-haired witch in the second row.
Fudge glanced around at them all, looking as though there was something large stuck in his
throat, then lowered his own hand. He took two deep reaths and said, in a voice distorted y
suppressed rage, "Very well, very well... cleared of all charges."
"Excellent," said Dumledore riskly, springing to his feet, pulling out his wand and causing the
two chintz armchairs to vanish. "Well, I must e getting along. Good-day to you all." And without looking once at Harry, he swept from the dungeon.
CHAPTER NINE
The Woes of Mrs. Weasley
Dumledore’s arupt departure took Harry completely y surprise. He remained sitting where he
was in the chained chair, struggling with his feelings of shock and relief. The Wizengamot were
all getting to their feet, talking, gathering up their papers and packing them away. Harry stood
up. Noody seemed to e paying him the slightest it of attention, except the toadlike witch on
Fudge’s right, who was now gazing down at him instead of at Dumledore. Ignoring her, he tried
to catch Fudge’s eye, or Madam Bones’s, wanting to ask whether he was free to go, ut Fudge
seemed quite determined not to notice Harry, and Madam Bones was usy with her riefcase, so
he took a few tentative steps towards the exit and, when noody called him ack, roke into a
very fast walk.
He took the last few steps at a run, wrenched open the door and almost collided with Mr.
Weasley, who was standing right outside, looking pale and apprehensive.
"Dumledore didn’t say -"
"Cleared," Harry said, pulling the door closed ehind him, "of all charges!"
Beaming, Mr. Weasley seized Harry y the shoulders.
"Harry, that’s wonderful! Well, of course, they couldn’t have found you guilty, not on the
evidence, ut even so, I can’t pretend I wasn’t -"
But Mr. Weasley roke off, ecause the courtroom door had just opened again. The Wizengamot
were filing out.
"Merlin’s eard!" exclaimed Mr. Weasley wonderingly, pulling Harry aside to let them all pass.
"You were tried y the full court?"
"I think so," said Harry quietly.
One or two of the wizards nodded to Harry as they passed and a few, including Madam Bones,
said, "Morning, Arthur," to Mr. Weasley, ut most averted their eyes. Cornelius Fudge and the
toadlike witch were almost the last to leave the dungeon. Fudge acted as though Mr. Weasley
and Harry were part of the wall, ut again, the witch looked almost appraisingly at Harry as she
passed. Last of all to pass was Percy. Like Fudge, he completely ignored his father and Harry; he
marched past clutching a large roll of parchment and a handful of spare quills, his ack rigid and
his nose in the air. The lines around Mr. Weasleys mouth tightened slightly, ut other than this
he gave no sign that he had seen his third son.
"I’m going to take you straight ack so you can tell the others the good news," he said, eckoning Harry forwards as Percy’s heels disappeared up the steps to Level Nine. "I’ll drop you off on the way to that toilet in Bethnal Green. Come on..."
"So, what will you have to do aout the toilet?" Harry asked, grinning. Everything suddenly
seemed five times funnier than usual. It was starting to sink in: he was cleared, he was going ack to Hogwarts.
"Oh, it’s a simple enough anti-jinx," said Mr. Weasley as they mounted the stairs, "ut it’s not so
much having to repair the damage, it’s more the attitude ehind the vandalism, Harry. Muggleaiting might strike some wizards as funny, ut it’s an expression of something much deeper and nastier, and I for one -"
Mr. Weasley roke off in mid-sentence. They had just reached the ninth-level corridor and
Cornelius Fudge was standing a few feet away from them, talking quietly to a tall man with sleek
lond hair and a pointed, pale face.
The second man turned at the sound of their footsteps. He, too, roke off in mid-conversation,
his cold grey eyes narrowed and fixed upon Harry’s face.
"Well, well, well... Patronus Potter," said Lucius Malfoy coolly.
Harry felt winded, as though he had just walked into something solid. He had last seen those cold
grey eyes through slits in a Death Eaters hood, and last heard that man’s voice jeering in a dark
graveyard while Lord Voldemort tortured him. Harry could not elieve that Lucius Malfoy dared
look him in the face; he could not elieve that he was here, in the Ministry of Magic, or that
Cornelius Fudge was talking to him, when Harry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that Malfoy
was a Death Eater.
"The Minister was just telling me aout your lucky escape, Potter," drawled Mr. Malfoy. "Quite
astonishing, the way you continue to wriggle out of very tight holes... snakelike, in fact."
Mr. Weasley gripped Harry’s shoulder in warning.
"Yeah," said Harry, "yeah, I’m good at escaping."
Lucius Malfoy raised his eyes to Mr. Weasley’s face.
"And Arthur Weasley too! What are you doing here, Arthur?"
"I work here," said Mr. Weasley curtly.
"Not here, surely?" said Mr. Malfoy, raising his eye rows and glancing towards the door over
Mr. Weasley’s shoulder. "I thought you were up on the second floor... don’t you do something
that involves sneaking Muggle artifacts home and ewitching them?"
"No," Mr. Weasley snapped, his fingers now iting into Harry’s shoulder.
"What are you doing here, anyway?" Harry asked Lucius Malfoy.
"I don’t think private matters etween myself and the Minister are any concern of yours, Potter,"
said Malfoy, smoothing the front of his roes. Harry distinctly heard the gentle clinking of what
sounded like a full pocket of gold. "Really, just ecause you are Dumledore’s favorite oy, you must not expect the same indulgence from the rest of us... shall we go up to your office, then, Minister?"
"Certainly" said Fudge, turning his ack on Harry and Mr. Weasley. "This way, Lucius."
They strode off together, talking in low voices. Mr. Weasley did not let go of Harry’s shoulder
until they had disappeared into the lift.
"Why wasn’t he waiting outside Fudge’s office if they’ve got usiness to do together?" Harry
urst out furiously. "What was he doing down here?"
"Trying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask me," said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely
agitated and glancing over his shoulder as though making sure they could not e overheard.
"Trying to find out whether you’d een expelled or not. I’ll leave a note for Dumledore when I
drop you off, he ought to know Malfoys een talking to Fudge again."
"What private usiness have they got together, anyway?"
"Gold, I expect," said Mr. Weasley angrily. "Malfoy’s een giving generously to all sorts of
things for years... gets him in with the right people... then he can ask favors... delay laws he
doesn’t want passed... oh, he’s very well-connected, Lucius Malfoy."
The lift arrived; it was empty except for a flock of memos that flapped around Mr. Weasley’s
head as he pressed the utton for the Atrium and the doors clanged shut. He waved them away
irritaly.
"Mr. Weasley" said Harry slowly, "if Fudge is meeting Death Eaters like Malfoy, if he’s seeing
them alone, how do we know they haven’t put the Imperius Curse on him?"
"Don’t think it hasn’t occurred to us, Harry" said Mr. Weasley quietly. "But Dumledore thinks
Fudge is acting of his own accord at the moment - which, as Dumledore says, is not a lot of
comfort. Best not talk aout it any more just now, Harry."
The doors slid open and they stepped out into the now almost-deserted Atrium. Eric the
watchwizard was hidden ehind his Daily Prophet again. They had walked straight past the
golden fountain efore Harry rememered.
"Wait..." he told Mr. Weasley, and, pulling his moneyag from his pocket, he turned ack to the
fountain.
He looked up into the handsome wizard’s face, ut up close Harry thought he looked rather weak
and foolish. The witch was wearing a vapid smile like a eauty contestant, and from what Harry
knew of golins and centaurs, they were most unlikely to e caught staring so soppily at humans
of any description. Only the house-elf’s attitude of creeping servility looked convincing. With a
grin at the thought of what Hermione would say if she could see the statue of the elf, Harry
turned his moneyag upside-down and emptied not just ten Galleons, ut the whole contents into
the pool.
"I knew it!" yelled Ron, punching the air. "You always get away with stuff!"
"They were ound to clear you," said Hermione, who had looked positively faint with anxiety
when Harry had entered the kitchen and was now holding a shaking hand over her eyes, "there
was no case against you, none at all."
"Everyone seems quite relieved, though, considering you all knew I’d get off," said Harry,
smiling.
Mrs. Weasley was wiping her face on her apron, and Fred, George and Ginny were doing a kind
of war dance to a chant that went: "He got off, he got off, he got off..."
"That’s enough! Settle down!" shouted Mr. Weasley, though he too was smiling. "Listen, Sirius,
Lucius Malfoy was at the Ministry -"
"What?" said Sirius sharply.
"He got off, he got off, he got off..."
"Be quiet, you three! Yes, we saw him talking to Fudge on Level Nine, then they went up to
Fudge’s office together. Dumledore ought to know."
"Asolutely," said Sirius. "We’ll tell him, don’t worry."
"Well, I’d etter get going, there’s a vomiting toilet waiting for me in Bethnal Green. Molly, I’ll
e late, I’m covering for Tonks, ut Kingsley might e dropping in for dinner -"
"He got off, he got off, he got off..."
"That’s enough - Fred - George - Ginny!" said Mrs. Weasley, as Mr. Weasley left the kitchen.
"Harry, dear, come and sit down, have some lunch, you hardly ate reakfast."
Ron and Hermione sat themselves down opposite him, looking happier than they had done since
he had first arrived at Grimmauld Place, and Harry’s feeling of giddy relief, which had een
somewhat dented y his encounter with Lucius Malfoy, swelled again. The gloomy house
seemed warmer and more welcoming all of a sudden; even Kreacher looked less ugly as he
poked his snoutlike nose into the kitchen to investigate the source of all the noise.
"Course, once Dumledore turned up on your side, there was no way they were going to convict
you," said Ron happily, now dishing great mounds of mashed potatoes on to everyone’s plates.
"Yeah, he swung it for me," said Harry. He felt it would sound highly ungrateful, not to mention
childish, to say, "I wish he’d talked to me, though. Or even looked at me."
And as he thought this, the scar on his forehead urned so adly that he clapped his hand to it.
"What’s up?" said Hermione, looking alarmed.
"Scar," Harry mumled. "But it’s nothing... it happens all the time now..."
None of the others had noticed a thing; all of them were now helping themselves to food while
gloating over Harry’s narrow escape; Fred, George and Ginny were still singing. Hermione
looked rather anxious, ut efore she could say anything, Ron had said happily, "I et
Dumledore turns up this evening, to celerate with us, you know."
"I don’t think he’ll e ale to, Ron," said Mrs. Weasley, setting a huge plate of roast chicken
down in front of Harry. "He’s really very usy at the moment."
"HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF"
"SHUT UP!" roared Mrs. Weasley.
Over the next few days Harry could not help noticing that there was one person within numer
twelve, Grimmauld Place, who did not seem wholly overjoyed that he would e returning to
Hogwarts. Sirius had put up a very good show of happiness on first hearing the news, wringing
Harry’s hand and eaming just like the rest of them. Soon, however, he was moodier and surlier
than efore, talking less to everyody, even Harry, and spending increasing amounts of time shut
up in his mother’s room with Buckeak.
"Don’t you go feeling guilty!" said Hermione sternly, after Harry had confided some of his
feelings to her and Ron while they scrued out a mouldy cupoard on the third floor a few days
later. "You elong at Hogwarts and Sirius knows it. Personally, I think he’s eing selfish."
"That’s a it harsh, Hermione," said Ron, frowning as he attempted to prize off a it of mould
that had attached itself firmly to his finger, "you wouldn’t want to e stuck inside this house
without any company."
"He’ll have company!" said Hermione. "It’s Headquarters to the Order of the Phoenix, isn’t it?
He just got his hopes up that Harry would e coming to live here with him."
"I don’t think that’s true" said Harry, wringing out his cloth. "He wouldn’t give me a straight
answer when I asked him if I could."
"He just didn’t want to get his own hopes up even more," said Hermione wisely. "And he
proaly felt a it guilty himself, ecause I think a part of him was really hoping you’d e
expelled. Then you’d oth e outcasts together."
"Come off it!" said Harry and Ron together, ut Hermione merely shrugged.
"Suit yourselves. But I sometimes think Ron’s mums right and Sirius gets confused aout whether you’re you or your father, Harry."
"So you think he’s touched in the head?" said Harry heatedly.
"No, I just think he’s een very lonely for a long time," said Hermione simply.
At this point, Mrs. Weasley entered the edroom ehind them.
"Still not finished?" she said, poking her head into the cupoard.
"I thought you might e here to tell us to have a reak" said Ron itterly. "D’you know how
much mould we’ve got rid of since we arrived here?"
"You were so keen to help the Order," said Mrs. Weasley, "you can do your it y making
Headquarters fit to live in."
"I feel like a house-elf," grumled Ron.
"Well, now you understand what dreadful lives they lead, perhaps you’ll e a it more active in
SPEW!" said Hermione hopefully, as Mrs. Weasley left them to it. "You know, maye it
wouldn’t e a ad idea to show people exactly how horrile it is to clean all the time - we could
do a sponsored scru of Gryffindor common room, all proceeds to SPEW, it would raise
awareness as well as funds."
"I’ll sponsor you to shut up aout SPEW," Ron muttered irritaly, ut only so Harry could hear
him.
Harry found himself daydreaming aout Hogwarts more and more as the end of the holidays
approached; he could not wait to see Hagrid again, to play Quidditch, even to stroll across the
vegetale patches to the Herology greenhouses; it would e a treat just to leave this dusty,
musty house, where half of the cupoards were still olted shut and Kreacher wheezed insults
out of the shadows as you passed, though Harry was careful not to say any of this within earshot
of Sirius.
The fact was that living at the Headquarters of the anti-Voldemort movement was not nearly as
interesting or exciting as Harry would have expected efore he’d experienced it. Though
memers of the Order of the Phoenix came and went regularly, sometimes staying for meals,
sometimes only for a few minutes of whispered conversation, Mrs. Weasley made sure that
Harry and the others were kept well out of earshot (whether Extendale or normal) and noody,
not even Sirius, seemed to feel that Harry needed to know anything more than he had heard on
the night of his arrival.
On the very last day of the holidays Harry was sweeping up Hedwigs owl droppings from the top
of the wardroe when Ron entered their edroom carrying a couple of envelopes.
"Booklists have arrived," he said, throwing one of the envelopes up to Harry, who was standing
on a chair. "Aout time, I thought they’d forgotten, they usually come much earlier than this..."
Harry swept the last of the droppings into a ruish ag and threw the ag over Ron’s head into
the wastepaper asket in the corner, which swallowed it and elched loudly. He then opened his
letter. It contained two pieces of parchment: one the usual reminder that term started on the first
of Septemer; the other telling him which ooks he would need for the coming year.
"Only two new ones," he said, reading the list, "The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 5, y
Miranda Goshawk, and Defensive Magical Theory, y Wilert Slinkhard."
Crack.
Fred and George Apparated right eside Harry. He was so used to them doing this y now that
he didn’t even fall off his chair.
"We were just wondering who assigned the Slinkhard ook," said Fred conversationally.
"Because it means Dumledore’s found a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher," said
George.
"And aout time too," said Fred.
"What d’you mean?" Harry asked, jumping down eside them.
"Well, we overheard Mum and Dad talking on the Extendale Ears a few weeks ack," Fred told
Harry, "and from what they were saying, Dumledore was having real troule finding anyone to
do the jo this year."
"Not surprising, is it, when you look at what’s happened to the last four?" said George.
"One sacked, one dead, one’s memory removed and one locked in a trunk for nine months," said
Harry, counting them off on his fingers. "Yeah, I see what you mean."
"What’s up with you, Ron?" asked Fred.
Ron did not answer. Harry looked round. Ron was standing very still with his mouth slightly
open, gaping at his letter from Hogwarts.
"What’s the matter?" said Fred impatiently, moving around Ron to look over his shoulder at the
parchment.
Fred’s mouth fell open, too.
"Prefect?" he said, staring incredulously at the letter. "Prefect?"
George leapt forwards, seized the envelope in Ron’s other hand and turned it upside-down. Harry
saw something scarlet and gold fall into George’s palm.
"No way," said George in a hushed voice.
"There’s een a mistake," said Fred, snatching the letter out of Ron’s grasp and holding it up to
the light as though checking for a watermark. "No one in their right mind would make Ron a
prefect."
The twins’ heads turned in unison and oth of them stared at Harry.
"We thought you were a cert!" said Fred, in a tone that suggested Harry had tricked them in some way.
"We thought Dumledore was ound to pick you!" said George indignantly.
"Winning the Triwizard and everything!" said Fred.
"I suppose all the mad stuff must’ve counted against him," said George to Fred.
"Yeah," said Fred slowly. "Yeah, you’ve caused too much troule, mate. Well, at least one of
you’s got their priorities right."
He strode over to Harry and clapped him on the ack while giving Ron a scathing look.
"Prefect... ickle Ronnie the Prefect."
"Oh, Mum’s going to e revolting," groaned George, thrusting the prefect adge ack at Ron as
though it might contaminate him.
Ron, who still had not said a word, took the adge, stared at it for a moment, then held it out to
Harry as though asking mutely for confirmation that it was genuine. Harry took it. A large P was
superimposed on the Gryffindor lion. He had seen a adge just like this on Percy’s chest on his
very first day at Hogwarts.
The door anged open. Hermione came tearing into the room, her cheeks flushed and her hair
flying. There was an envelope in her hand.
"Did you - did you get -?"
She spotted the adge in Harry’s hand and let out a shriek.
"I knew it!’ she said excitedly, randishing her letter. "Me too, Harry, me too!"
"No," said Harry quickly, pushing the adge ack into Ron’s hand. "It’s Ron, not me."
"It - what?"
"Ron’s prefect, not me," Harry said.
"Ron?" said Hermione, her jaw dropping. "But... are you sure? I mean -"
She turned red as Ron looked round at her with a defiant expression on his face.
"It’s my name on the letter," he said.
"I..." said Hermione, looking thoroughly ewildered. "I... well... wow! Well done, Ron! That’s
really -"
"Unexpected," said George, nodding.
"No," said Hermione, lushing harder than ever, "no it’s not... Ron’s done loads of... he’s
really..."
The door ehind her opened a little wider and Mrs. Weasley acked into the room carrying a pile
of freshly laundered roes.
"Ginny said the ooklists had come at last," she said, glancing around at all the envelopes as she
made her way over to the ed and started sorting the roes into two piles. "If you give them to
me I’ll take them over to Diagon Alley this afternoon and get your ooks while you’re packing.
Ron, I’ll have to get you more pajamas, these are at least six inches too short, I can’t elieve how
fast you’re growing... what color would you like?"
"Get him red and gold to match his adge," said George, smirking.
"Match his what?" said Mrs. Weasley asently, rolling up a pair of maroon socks and placing
them on Ron’s pile.
"His adge," said Fred, with the air of getting the worst over quickly. "His lovely shiny
new prefect’s adge."
Fred’s words took a moment to penetrate Mrs. Weasley’s preoccupation with pajamas.
"His... ut... Ron, you’re not...?"
Ron held up his adge.
Mrs. Weasley let out a shriek just like Hermione’s.
"I don’t elieve it! I don’t elieve it! Oh, Ron, how wonderful! A prefect! That’s everyone in the
family!"
"What are Fred and I, next-door neighors?" said George indignantly, as his mother pushed him
aside and flung her arms around her youngest son.
"Wait until your father hears! Ron, I’m so proud of you, what wonderful news, you could end up
Head Boy just like Bill and Percy, it’s the first step! Oh, what a thing to happen in the middle of
all this worry, I’m just thrilled, oh, Ronnie --"
Fred and George were oth making loud retching noises ehind her ack ut Mrs. Weasley did
not notice; arms tight around Ron’s neck, she was kissing him all over his face, which had turned
a righter scarlet than his adge.
"Mum... don’t... Mum, get a grip..." he muttered, trying to push her away.
She let go of him and said reathlessly, "Well, what will it e? We gave Percy an owl, ut you’ve already got one, of course."
"W-what do you mean?" said Ron, looking as though he did not dare elieve his ears.
"You’ve got to have a reward for this!" said Mrs. Weasley fondly. "How aout a nice new set of
dress roes?"
"We’ve already ought him some," said Fred sourly, who looked as though he sincerely regretted this generosity.
"Or a new cauldron, Charlie’s old one’s rusting through, or a new rat, you always liked Scaers"
"Mum," said Ron hopefully, "can I have a new room?"
Mrs. Weasley’s face fell slightly; roomsticks were expensive.
"Not a really good one!" Ron hastened to add. "Just - just a new one for a change..."
Mrs. Weasley hesitated, then smiled.
"Of course you can... well, I’d etter get going if I’ve got a room to uy too. I’ll see you all
later... little Ronnie, a prefect! And don’t forget to pack your trunks... a prefect... oh, I’m all of
a dither!"
She gave Ron yet another kiss on the cheek, sniffed loudly, and ustled from the room.
Fred and George exchanged looks.
"You don’t mind if we don’t kiss you, do you, Ron?" said Fred in a falsely anxious voice.
"We could curtsey, if you like," said George.
"Oh, shut up," said Ron, scowling at them.
"Or what?" said Fred, an evil grin spreading across his face. "Going to put us in detention?"
"I’d love to see him try," sniggered George.
"He could if you don’t watch out!" said Hermione angrily.
Fred and George urst out laughing, and Ron muttered, "Drop it, Hermione."
"We’re going to have to watch our step, George," said Fred, pretending to tremle, "with these
two on our case..."
"Yeah, it looks like our law-reaking days are finally over," said George, shaking his head.
And with another loud crack, the twins Disapparated.
"Those two!" said Hermione furiously, staring up at the ceiling, through which they could now
hear Fred and George roaring with laughter in the room upstairs. "Don’t pay any attention to
them, Ron, they’re only jealous!"
"I don’t think they are," said Ron doutfully, also looking up at the ceiling. "They’ve always said only prats ecome prefects... still," he added on a happier note, "they’ve never had new rooms! I wish I could go with Mum and choose... she’ll never e ale to afford a Nimus, ut there’s the new Cleansweep out, that’d e great... yeah, I think I’ll go and tell her I like the Cleansweep, just so she knows."
He dashed from the room, leaving Harry and Hermione alone.
For some reason, Harry found he did not want to look at Hermione. He turned to his ed, picked
up the pile of clean roes Mrs. Weasley had laid on it and crossed the room to his trunk.
"Harry?" said Hermione tentatively.
"Well done, Hermione," said Harry, so heartily it did not sound like his voice at all, and, still not
looking at her, "rilliant. Prefect. Great."
"Thanks," said Hermione. "Erm - Harry - could I orrow Hedwig so I can tell Mum and Dad?
They’ll e really pleased - I mean prefect is something they can understand."
"Yeah, no prolem," said Harry, still in the horrile hearty voice that did not elong to him.
"Take her!"
He leaned over his trunk, laid the roes on the ottom of it and pretended to e rummaging for
something while Hermione crossed to the wardroe and called Hedwig down. A few moments
passed; Harry heard the door close ut remained ent doule, listening; the only sounds he could
hear were the lank picture on the wall sniggering again and the wastepaper asket in the corner
coughing up the owl droppings.
He straightened up and looked ehind him. Hermione had left and Hedwig had gone. Harry
hurried across the room, closed the door, then returned slowly to his ed and sank on to it, gazing
unseeingly at the foot of the wardroe.
He had forgotten completely aout prefects eing chosen in the fifth year. He had een too
anxious aout the possiility of eing expelled to spare a thought for the fact that adges must e
winging their way towards certain people. But if he had rememered... if he had thought aout
it... what would he have expected?
Not this, said a small and truthful voice inside his head.
Harry screwed up his face and uried it in his hands. He could not lie to himself; if he had known
the prefect adge was on its way, he would have expected it to come to him, not Ron. Did this
make him as arrogant as Draco Malfoy? Did he think himself superior to everyone else? Did he
really elieve he was etter than Ron?
No, said the small voice defiantly.
Was that true? Harry wondered, anxiously proing his own feelings.
I’m etter at Quidditch, said the voice. But I’m not etter at anything else.
That was definitely true, Harry thought; he was no etter than Ron in lessons. But what aout
outside lessons? What aout those adventures he, Ron and Hermione had had together since
starting at Hogwarts, often risking much worse than expulsion?
Well, Ron and Hermione were with me most of the time, said the voice in Harry’s head.
Not all the time, though, Harry argued with himself. They didn’t fight Quirrell with me. They
didn’t take on Riddle and the Basilisk. They didn’t get rid of all those Dementors the night Sirius
escaped. They weren’t in that graveyard with me, the night Voldemort returned...
And the same feeling of ill-usage that had overwhelmed him on the night he had arrived rose
again. I’ve definitely done more, Harry thought indignantly. I’ve done more than either of them!
But maye, said the small voice fairly, maye Dumledore doesn’t choose prefects ecause
they’ve got themselves into a load of dangerous situations... maye he chooses them for other
reasons... Ron must have something you don’t...
Harry opened his eyes and stared through his fingers at the wardroe’s clawed feet, rememering
what Fred had said: "No one in their right mind would make Ron a prefect..."
Harry gave a small snort of laughter. A second later he felt sickened with himself.
Ron had not asked Dumledore to give him the prefect adge. This was not Ron’s fault. Was he,
Harry, Ron’s est friend in the world, going to sulk ecause he didn’t have a adge, laugh with
the twins ehind Ron’s ack, ruin this for Ron when, for the first time, he had eaten Harry at
something?
At this point Harry heard Ron’s footsteps on the stairs again. He stood up, straightened his
glasses, and hitched a grin on to his face as Ron ounded ack through the door.
"Just caught her!" he said happily. "She says she’ll get the Cleansweep if she can."
"Cool," Harry said, and he was relieved to hear that his voice had stopped sounding hearty.
"Listen - Ron - well done, mate."
The smile faded off Ron’s face.
"I never thought it would e me!" he said, shaking his head. "I thought it would e you!"
"Nah, I’ve caused too much troule," Harry said, echoing Fred.
"Yeah," said Ron, "yeah, I suppose... well, we’d etter get our trunks packed, hadn’t we?"
It was odd how widely their possessions seemed to have scattered themselves since they had
arrived. It took them most of the afternoon to retrieve their ooks and elongings from all over
the house and stow them ack inside their school trunks. Harry noticed that Ron kept moving his
prefects adge around, first placing it on his edside tale, then putting it into his jeans pocket,
then taking it out and lying it on his folded roes, as though to see the effect of the red on the
lack. Only when Fred and George dropped in and offered to attach it to his forehead with a
Permanent Sticking Charm did he wrap it tenderly in his maroon socks and lock it in his trunk.
Mrs. Weasley returned from Diagon Alley around six o’clock, laden with ooks and carrying a
long package wrapped in thick rown paper that Ron took from her with a moan of longing.
"Never mind unwrapping it now, people are arriving for dinner, I want you all downstairs," she
said, ut the moment she was out of sight Ron ripped off the paper in a frenzy and examined
every inch of his new room, an ecstatic expression on his face.
Down in the asement Mrs. Weasley had hung a scarlet anner over the heavily laden dinner
tale, which read:
CONGRATULATIONS
RON AND HERMIONE
NEW PREFECTS
She looked in a etter mood than Harry had seen her all holiday.
"I thought we’d have a little party, not a sit-down dinner," she told Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred,
George and Ginny as they entered the room. "Your father and Bill are on their way, Ron. I’ve
sent them oth owls and they’re thrilled," she added, eaming.
Fred rolled his eyes.
Sirius, Lupin, Tonks and Kingsley Shackleolt were already there and Mad-Eye Moody stumped
in shortly after Harry had got himself a Buttereer.
"Oh, Alastor, I am glad you’re here," said Mrs. Weasley rightly, as Mad-Eye shrugged off his
traveling cloak. "We’ve een wanting to ask you for ages - could you have a look in the writing
desk in the drawing room and tell us what’s inside it? We haven’t wanted to open it just in case
it’s something really nasty."
"No prolem, Molly..."
Moody’s electric-lue eye swiveled upwards and stared fixedly through the ceiling of the
kitchen.
"Drawing room..." he growled, as the pupil contracted. "Desk in the corner? Yeah, I see it...
yeah, it’s a Boggart... want me to go up and get rid of it, Molly?"
"No, no, I’ll do it myself later," eamed Mrs. Weasley, "you have your drink. We’re having a
little it of a celeration, actually..." She gesture d at the scarlet anner. "Fourth prefect in the
family!" she said fondly, ruffling Ron’s hair.
"Prefect, eh?" growled Moody, his normal eye on Ron and his magical eye swiveling around to
gaze into the side of his head. Harry had the very uncomfortale feeling it was looking at him
and moved away towards Sirius and Lupin.
"Well, congratulations," said Moody, still glaring at Ron with his normal eye, "authority figures
always attract troule, ut I suppose Dumledore thinks you can withstand most major jinxes or
he wouldn’t have appointed you..."
Ron looked rather startled at this view of the matter ut was saved the troule of responding y
the arrival of his father and eldest rother. Mrs. Weasley was in such a good mood she did not
even complain that they had rought Mundungus with them; he was wearing a long overcoat that
seemed oddly lumpy in unlikely places and declined the offer to remove it and put it with
Moody’s traveling cloak.
"Well, I think a toast is in order," said Mr. Weasley, when everyone had a drink. He raised his
golet. "To Ron and Hermione, the new Gryffindor prefects!"
Ron and Hermione eamed as everyone drank to them, and then applauded.
"I was never a prefect myself," said Tonks rightly from ehind Harry as everyody moved
towards the tale to help themselves to food. Her hair was tomato red and waist-length today;
she looked like Ginny’s older sister. "My Head of House said I lacked certain necessary
qualities."
"Like what?" said Ginny, who was choosing a aked potato.
"Like the aility to ehave myself," said Tonks.
Ginny laughed; Hermione looked as though she did not know whether to smile or not and
compromised y taking an extra large gulp of Buttereer and choking on it.
"What aout you, Sirius?" Ginny asked, thumping Hermione on the ack.
Sirius, who was right eside Harry, let out his usual ark-like laugh.
"No one would have made me a prefect, I spent too much time in detention with James. Lupin
was the good oy, he got the adge."
"I think Dumledore might have hoped I would e ale to exercise some control over my est
friends," said Lupin. "I need scarcely say that I failed dismally."
Harry’s mood suddenly lifted. His father had not een a prefect either. All at once the party
seemed much more enjoyale; he loaded up his plate, feeling douly fond of everyone in the
room.
Ron was rhapsodizing aout his new room to anyody who would listen.
"... nought to seventy in ten seconds, not ad, is it? When you think the Comet Two Ninety’s
only nought to sixty and that’s with a decent tailwind according to Which Broomstick?"
Hermione was talking very earnestly to Lupin aout her view of elf rights.
"I mean, it’s the same kind of nonsense as werewolf segregation, isn’t it? It all stems from this
horrile thing wizards have of thinking they’re superior to other creatures..."
Mrs. Weasley and Bill were having their usual argument aout Bill’s hair.
"... getting really out of hand, and you’re so good-looking, it would look much etter shorter,
wouldn’t it, Harry?"
"Oh - I dunno -" said Harry, slightly alarmed at eing asked his opinion; he slid away from them
in the direction of Fred and George, who were huddled in a corner with Mundungus.
Mundungus stopped talking when he saw Harry, ut Fred winked and eckoned Harry closer.
"It’s okay," he told Mundungus, "we can trust Harry, he’s our financial acker."
"Look what Dung’s got us," said George, holding out his hand to Harry. It was full of what
looked like shriveled lack pods. A faint rattling noise was coming from them, even though they
were completely stationary.
"Venomous Tentacula seeds," said George. "We need them for the Skiving Snackoxes ut
they’re a Class C Non-Tradale Sustance so we’ve een having a it of troule getting hold of
them."
"Ten Galleons the lot, then Dung?" said Fred.
"Wiv all the troule I went to to get ‘em?" said Mundungus, his saggy, loodshot eyes stretching
even wider. "I’m sorry, lads, ut I’m not taking a Knut under twenty."
"Dung likes his little joke," Fred said to Harry.
"Yeah, his est one so far has een six Sickles for a ag of Knarl quills," said George.
"Be careful," Harry warned them quietly.
"What?" said Fred. "Mum’s usy cooing over Prefect Ron, we’re okay."
"But Moody could have his eye on you," Harry pointed out.
Mundungus looked nervously over his shoulder.
"Good point, that," he grunted. "All right, lads, ten it is, if you’ll take ‘em quick."
"Cheers, Harry!" said Fred delightedly, when Mundungus had emptied his pockets into the twins’ outstretched hands and scuttled off towards the food. "We’d etter get these upstairs..."
Harry watched them go, feeling slightly uneasy. It had just occurred to him that Mr. and Mrs.
Weasley would want to know how Fred and George were financing their joke shop usiness
when, as was inevitale, they finally found out aout it. Giving the twins his Triwizard winnings
had seemed a simple thing to do at the time, ut what if it led to another family row and a Percylike estrangement? Would Mrs. Weasley still feel that Harry was as good as her son if she found out he had made it possile for Fred and George to start a career she thought quite unsuitale?
Standing where the twins had left him, with nothing ut a guilty weight in the pit of his stomach
for company, Harry caught the sound of his own name. Kingsley Shackleolt’s deep voice was
audile even over the surrounding chatter.
"... why Dumledore didn’t make Potter a prefect?" said Kingsley.
"He’ll have had his reasons," replied Lupin.
"But it would’ve shown confidence in him. It’s what I’d’ve done," persisted Kingsley, "specially
with the Daily Prophet having a go at him every few days..."
Harry did not look round; he did not want Lupin or Kingsley to know he had heard. Though not
remotely hungry, he followed Mundungus ack towards the tale. His pleasure in the party had
evaporated as quickly as it had come; he wished he were upstairs in ed.
Mad-Eye Moody was sniffing at a chicken-leg with what remained of his nose; evidently he
could not detect any trace of poison, ecause he then tore a strip off it with his teeth.
"... the handles made of Spanish oak with anti-jinx varnish and in-uilt viration control -" Ron
was saying to Tonks.
Mrs. Weasley yawned widely.
"Well, I think I’ll sort out that Boggart efore I turn in... Arthur, I don’t want this lot up too late,
all right? Night, Harry, dear."
She left the kitchen. Harry set down his plate and wondered whether he could follow her without
attracting attention.
"You all right, Potter?" grunted Moody.
"Yeah, fine," lied Harry.
Moody took a swig from his hipflask, his electric-lue eye staring sideways at Harry.
"Come here, I’ve got something that might interest you," he said.
From an inner pocket of his roes Moody pulled a very tattered old wizarding photograph.
"Original Order of the Phoenix," growled Moody. "Found it last night when I was looking for my spare Invisiility Cloak, seeing as Podmore hasn’t had the manners to return my est one...
thought people might like to see it."
Harry took the photograph. A small crowd of people, some waving at him, others lifting their
glasses, looked ack up at him.
"There’s me," said Moody, unnecessarily pointing at himself. The Moody in the picture was
unmistakale, though his hair was slightly less grey and his nose was intact. "And there’s
Dumledore eside me, Dedalus Diggle on the other side... that’s Marlene McKinnon, she was
killed two weeks after this was taken, they got her whole family. That’s Frank and Alice
Longottom -"
Harry’s stomach, already uncomfortale, clenched as he looked at Alice Longottom; he knew
her round, friendly face very well, even though he had never met her, ecause she was the image
of her son, Neville.
"-- poor devils," growled Moody. "Better dead than what happened to them... and that’s
Emmeline Vance, you’ve met her, and that there’s Lupin, oviously... Benjy Fenwick, he
copped it too, we only ever found its of him... shift aside there," he added, poking the picture,
and the little photographic people edged sideways, so that those who were partially oscured
could move to the front.
"That’s Edgar Bones... rother of Amelia Bones, they got him and his family, too, he was a great wizard... Sturgis Podmore, limey, he looks young... Caradoc Dearorn, vanished six months after this, we never found his ody... Hagrid, of course, looks exactly the same as ever...
Elphias Doge, you’ve met him, I’d forgotten he used to wear that stupid hat... Gideon Prewett, it
took five Death Eaters to kill him and his rother Faian, they fought like heroes... udge along,
udge along..."
The little people in the photograph jostled among themselves and those hidden right at the ack
appeared at the forefront of the picture.
"That’s Dumledore’s rother Aerforth, only time I ever met him, strange loke... that’s
Dorcas Meadowes, Voldemort killed her personally... Sirius, when he still had short hair...
and... there you go, thought that would interest you!"
Harry’s heart turned over. His mother and father were eaming up at him, sitting on either side
of a small, watery-eyed man whom Harry recognized at once as Wormtail, the one who had
etrayed his parents’ whereaouts to Voldemort and so helped to ring aout their deaths.
"Eh?" said Moody.
Harry looked up into Moody’s heavily scarred and pitted face. Evidently Moody was under the
impression he had just given Harry a it of a treat.
"Yeah," said Harry, once again attempting to grin. "Er... listen, I’ve just rememered, I haven’t
packed my..."
He was spared the troule of inventing an oject he had not packed. Sirius had just said, "What’s
that you’ve got there, Mad-Eye?" and Moody had turned towards him. Harry crossed the kitchen, slipped through the door and up the stairs efore anyone could call him ack.
He did not know why it had een such a shock; he had seen pictures of his parents efore, after
all, and he had met Wormtail ut to have them sprung on him like that, when he was least
expecting it... no one would like that, he thought angrily...
And then, to see them surrounded y all those other happy faces... Benjy Fenwick, who had
een found in its, and Gideon Prewett, who had died like a hero, and the Longottoms, who had
een tortured into madness... all waving happily out of the photograph forever more, not
knowing that they were doomed... well, Moody might find that interesting... he, Harry, found it
disturing...
Harry tiptoed up the stairs in the hall past the stuffed elf-heads, glad to e on his own again, ut
as he approached the first landing he heard noises. Someone was soing in the drawing room.
"Hello?" Harry said.
There was no answer ut the soing continued. He climed the remaining stairs two at a time,
walked across the landing and opened the drawing-room door.
Someone was cowering against the dark wall, her wand in her hand, her whole ody shaking
with sos. Sprawled on the dusty old carpet in a patch of moonlight, clearly dead, was Ron.
All the air seemed to vanish from Harry’s lungs; he felt as though he were falling through the
floor; his rain turned icy cold - Ron dead, no, it couldn’t e -
But wait a moment, it couldn’t e - Ron was downstairs -
"Mrs. Weasley?" Harry croaked.
"R - r - riddikulus!" Mrs. Weasley soed, pointing her shaking wand at Ron’s ody.
Crack.
Ron’s ody turned into Bill’s, spread-eagled on his ack, his eyes wide open and empty. Mrs.
Weasley soed harder than ever.
"R -riddikulus!" she soed again.
Crack.
Mr. Weasley’s ody replaced Bill’s, his glasses askew, a trickle of lood running down his face.
"No!" Mrs. Weasley moaned. "No... riddikulus! Riddikulus! RIDDlKULUS"
Crack. Dead twins. Crack. Dead Percy. Crack. Dead Harry...
"Mrs. Weasley, just get out of here!" shouted Harry, staring down at his own dead ody on the
floor. "Let someone else -"
"What’s going on?"
Lupin had come running into the room, closely followed y Sirius, with Moody stumping along
ehind them. Lupin looked from Mrs. Weasley to the dead Harry on the floor and seemed to
understand in an instant. Pulling out his own wand, he said, very firmly and clearly:
"Riddikulus!"
Harry’s ody vanished. A silvery or hung in the air over the spot where it had lain. Lupin
waved his wand once more and the or vanished in a puff of smoke.
"Oh - oh - oh!" gulped Mrs. Weasley, and she roke into a storm of crying, her face in her hands.
"Molly," said Lupin leakly, walking over to her. "Molly don’t..."
Next second, she was soing her heart out on Lupin’s shoulder.
"Molly, it was just a Boggart," he said soothingly, patting her on the head, "just a stupid
Boggart..."
"I see them d-d - dead all the time!" Mrs. Weasley moaned into his shoulder. "All the’t -’t - time!
I d - d - dream aout it..."
Sirius was staring at the patch of carpet where the Boggart, pretending to e Harry’s ody, had
lain. Moody was looking at Harry, who avoided his gaze. He had a funny feeling Moody’s
magical eye had followed him all the way out of the kitchen.
"D-d - don’t tell Arthur," Mrs. Weasley was gulping now, mopping her eyes frantically with her
cuffs. "I d - d - don’t want him to know... eing silly..."
Lupin handed her a handkerchief and she lew her nose.
"Harry, I’m so sorry. What must you think of me?" she said shakily. "Not even ale to get rid of a Boggart..."
"Don’t e stupid," said Harry, trying to smile.
"I’m just’s -’s - so worried," she said, tears spilling out of her eyes again. "Half the f - f - family’s in the Order, it’ll  -  - e a miracle if we all come through this... and P - P - Percy’s not talking to us... what if something d-d - dreadful happens and we’ve never m - m - made it up with him? And what’s going to happen if Arthur and I get killed, who’s g - g - going to look after Ron and Ginny?"
"Molly that’s enough" said Lupin firmly. "This isn’t like last time. The Order are etter prepared, we’ve got a head start, we know what Voldemorts up to -"
Mrs. Weasley gave a little squeak of fright at the sound of the name.
"Oh, Molly, come on, it’s aout time you got used to hearing his name - look, I can’t promise no
one’s going to get hurt, noody can promise that, ut we’re much etter off than we were last
time. You weren’t in the Order then, you don’t understand. Last time we were outnumered
twenty to one y the Death Eaters and they were picking us off one y one..."
Harry thought of the photograph again, of his parents’ eaming faces. He knew Moody was still
watching him.
"Don’t worry aout Percy" said Sirius aruptly. "He’ll come round. It’s only a matter of time
efore Voldemort moves into the open; once he does, the whole Ministry’s going to e egging
us to forgive them. And I’m not sure I’ll e accepting their apology," he added itterly.
"And as for who’s going to look after Ron and Ginny if you and Arthur died," said Lupin,
smiling slightly, "what do you think we’d do, let them starve?"
Mrs. Weasley smiled tremulously.
"Being silly," she muttered again, mopping her eyes.
But Harry, closing his edroom door ehind him some ten minutes later, could not think Mrs.
Weasley silly. He could still see his parents eaming up at him from the tattered old photograph,
unaware that their lives, like so many of those around them, were drawing to a close. The image
of the Boggart posing as the corpse of each memer of Mrs. Weasley’s family in turn kept
flashing efore his eyes.
Without warning, the scar on his forehead seared with pain again and his stomach churned
horrily.
"Cut it out," he said firmly, ruing the scar as the pain receded.
"First sign of madness, talking to your own head," said a sly voice from the empty picture on the
wall.
Harry ignored it. He felt older than he had ever felt in his life and it seemed extraordinary to him
that arely an hour ago he had een worried aout a joke shop and who had got a prefects adge.
CHAPTER TEN
Luna Lovegood
Harry had a trouled nights sleep. His parents wove in and out of his dreams, never speaking;
Mrs. Weasley soed over Kreachers dead ody, watched y Ron and Hermione who were
wearing crowns, and yet again Harry found himself walking down a corridor ending in a locked
door. He awoke aruptly with his scar prickling to find Ron already dressed and talking to him.
"... etter hurry up, Mum’s going allistic, she says we’re going to miss the train."
There was a lot of commotion in the house. From what he heard as he dressed at top speed,
Harry gathered that Fred and George had ewitched their trunks to fly downstairs to save the
other of carrying them, with the result that they had hurtled straight into Ginny and knocked her
down two flights of stairs into the hall; Mrs. Black and Mrs. Weasley were oth screaming at the
top of their voices.
"- COULD HAVE DONE HER A SERIOUS INJURY, YOU IDIOTS -"
"- FILTHY HALF-BREEDS, BESMIRCHING THE HOUSE OF MY FATHERS -"
Hermione came hurrying into the room looking flustered, just as Harry was putting on his
trainers. Hedwig was swaying on her shoulder, and she was carrying a squirming Crookshanks in
her arms.
"Mum and Dad just sent Hedwig ack." The owl fluttered oligingly over and perched on top of
her cage. "Are you ready yet?"
"Nearly. Is Ginny all right?" Harry asked, shoving on his glasses.
"Mrs. Weasley’s patched her up," said Hermione. "But now Mad-Eye’s complaining that we
can’t leave unless Sturgis Podmore’s here, otherwise the guard will e one short.’
"Guard?" said Harry. "We have to go to King’s Cross with a guard?"
"You have to go to King’s Cross with a guard," Hermione corrected him.
"Why?" said Harry irritaly. "I thought Voldemort was supposed to e lying low, or are you
telling me he’s going to jump out from ehind a dustin to try and do me in?"
"I don’t know, it’s just what Mad-Eye says," said Hermione distractedly, looking at her watch,
"ut if we don’t leave soon we’re definitely going to miss the train..."
"WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE!" Mrs. Weasley ellowed and Hermione jumped as though scalded and hurried out of the room. Harry seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremoniously into her cage, and set off downstairs after Hermione, dragging his trunk.
Mrs. Black’s portrait was howling with rage ut noody was othering to close the curtains over
her; all the noise in the hall was ound to rouse her again, anyway.
"Harry, you’re to come with me and Tonks," shouted Mrs. Weasley - over the repeated screeches
of "MUDBLOODS! SCUM! CREATURES OF DIRT!" - "Leave your trunk and your owl,
Alastor’s going to deal with the luggage... oh, for heaven’s sake, Sirius, Dumledore said no!"
A ear-like lack dog had appeared at Harry’s side as he was clamering over the various trunks
cluttering the hall to get to Mrs. Weasley.
"Oh honestly..." said Mrs. Weasley despairingly. "Well, on your own head e it!’
She wrenched open the front door and stepped out into the weak Septemer sunlight. Harry and
the dog followed her. The door slammed ehind them and Mrs. Blacks screeches were cut off
instantly.
"Where’s Tonks?" Harry said, looking round as they went down the stone steps of numer twelve, which vanished the moment they reached the pavement.
"She’s waiting for us just up here," said Mrs. Weasley stiffly, averting her eyes from the
lolloping lack dog eside Harry.
An old woman greeted them on the corner. She had tightly curled grey hair and wore a purple hat
shaped like a pork pie.
"Wotcher, Harry," she said, winking. "Better hurry up, hadn’t we, Molly?" she added, checking
her watch.
"I know, I know," moaned Mrs. Weasley, lengthening her stride, "ut Mad-Eye wanted to wait
for Sturgis... if only Arthur could have got us cars from the Ministry again... ut Fudge won’t
let him orrow so much as an empty ink ottle these days... how Muggles can stand traveling
without magic."
But the great lack dog gave a joyful ark and gamoled around them, snapping at pigeons and
chasing its own tail. Harry couldn’t help laughing. Sirius had een trapped inside for a very long
time. Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips in an almost Aunt Petunia-ish way.
It took them twenty minutes to reach King’s Cross on foot and nothing more eventful happened
during that time than Sirius scaring a couple of cats for Harry’s entertainment. Once inside the
station they lingered casually eside the arrier etween platforms nine and ten until the coast
was clear, then each of them leaned against it in turn and fell easily through on to platform nine
and three-quarters, where the Hogwarts Express stood elching sooty steam over a platform
packed with departing students and their families. Harry inhaled the familiar smell and felt his
spirits soar... he was really going ack...
"I hope the others make it in time," said Mrs. Weasley anxiously, staring ehind her at the
wrought-iron arch spanning the platform, through which new arrivals would come.
"Nice dog, Harry!" called a tall oy with dreadlocks.
"Thanks, Lee," said Harry, grinning, as Sirius wagged his tail frantically.
"Oh good," said Mrs. Weasley, sounding relieved, "here’s Alastor with the luggage, look..."
A porter’s cap pulled low over his mismatched eyes, Moody came limping through the archway
pushing a trolley loaded with their trunks.
"All okay," he muttered to Mrs. Weasley and Tonks, "don’t think we were followed..."
Seconds later, Mr. Weasley emerged on to the platform with Ron and Hermione. They had
almost unloaded Moody’s luggage trolley when Fred, George and Ginny turned up with Lupin.
"No troule?" growled Moody.
"Nothing," said Lupin.
"I’ll still e reporting Sturgis to Dumledore," said Moody, "that’s the second time he’s not
turned up in a week. Getting as unreliale as Mundungus."
"Well, look after yourselves," said Lupin, shaking hands all round. He reached Harry last and
gave him a clap on the shoulder. "You too Harry. Be careful."
"Yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled," said Moody, shaking Harry’s hand too.
"And don’t forget, all of you - careful what you put in writing. If in dout, don’t put it in a letter at all."
"It’s een great meeting all of you," said Tonks, hugging Hermione and Ginny "We’ll see you
soon, I expect."
A warning whistle sounded; the students still on the platform started hurrying on to the train.
"Quick, quick," said Mrs. Weasley distractedly, hugging them at random and catching Harry
twice. "Write... e good... if you’ve forgotten anything we’ll send it on... on to the train, now,
hurry..."
For one rief moment, the great lack dog reared on to its hind legs and placed its front paws on
Harry’s shoulders, ut Mrs. Weasley shoved Harry away towards the train door, hissing, "For
heaven’s sake, act more like a dog, Sirius!"
"See you!" Harry called out of the open window as the train egan to move, while Ron,
Hermione and Ginny waved eside him. The figures of Tonks, Lupin, Moody and Mr. and Mrs.
Weasley shrank rapidly ut the lack dog was ounding alongside the window, wagging its tail;
lurred people on the platform were laughing to see it chasing the train, then they rounded a
end, and Sirius was gone.
"He shouldn’t have come with us," said Hermione in a worried voice.
"Oh, lighten up," said Ron, "he hasn’t seen daylight for months, poor loke."
"Well," said Fred, clapping his hands together, "can’t stand around chatting all day, we’ve got
usiness to discuss with Lee. See you later," and he and George disappeared down the corridor to
the right.
The train was gathering still more speed, so that the houses outside the window flashed past, and
they swayed where they stood.
"Shall we go and find a compartment, then?" Harry asked.
Ron and Hermione exchanged looks.
"Er," said Ron.
"We’re - well - Ron and I are supposed to go into the prefect carriage," Hermione said
awkwardly.
Ron wasn’t looking at Harry; he seemed to have ecome intensely interested in the fingernails on
his left hand.
"Oh," said Harry. "Right. Fine."
"I don’t think we’ll have to stay there all journey," said Hermione quickly. "Our letters said we
just get instructions from the Head Boy and Girl and then patrol the corridors from time to time."
"Fine," said Harry again. "Well, I - I might see you later, then."
"Yeah, definitely," said Ron, casting a shifty, anxious look at Harry. "It’s a pain having to go
down there, I’d rather - ut we have to -I mean, I’m not enjoying it, I’m not Percy," he finished
defiantly.
"I know you’re not," said Harry and he grinned. But as Hermione and Ron dragged their trunks,
Crookshanks and a caged Pigwidgeon off towards the engine end of the train, Harry felt an odd
sense of loss. He had never traveled on the Hogwarts Express without Ron.
"Come on," Ginny told him, "if we get a move on we’ll e ale to save them places."
"Right," said Harry, picking up Hedwig’s cage in one hand and the handle of his trunk in the
other. They struggled off down the corridor, peering through the glass-paneled doors into the
compartments they passed, which were already full. Harry could not help noticing that a lot of
people stared ack at him with great interest and that several of them nudged their neighors
and pointed him out. After he had met this ehavior in five consecutive carriages he
rememered that the Daily Prophet had een telling its readers all summer what a lying show-off he was. He wondered dully whether the people now staring and whispering elieved the stories.
In the very last carriage they met Neville Longottom, Harry’s fellow fifth-year Gryffindor, his
round face shining with the effort of pulling his trunk along and maintaining a one-handed grip
on his struggling toad, Trevor.
"Hi, Harry" he panted. "Hi, Ginny... everywhere’s full... I can’t find a seat..."
"What are you talking aout?" said Ginny, who had squeezed past Neville to peer into the
compartment ehind him. "There’s room in this one, there’s only Loony Lovegood in here --"
Neville mumled something aout not wanting to distur anyone.
"Don’t e silly," said Ginny, laughing, "she’s all right."
She slid the door open and pulled her trunk inside. Harry and Neville followed.
"Hi, Luna," said Ginny, "is it okay if we take these seats?"
The girl eside the window looked up. She had straggly, waist-length, dirty londe hair, very
pale eyerows and protuerant eyes that gave her a permanently surprised look. Harry knew at
once why Neville had chosen to pass this compartment y. The girl gave off an aura of distinct
dottiness. Perhaps it was the fact that she had stuck her wand ehind her left ear for safekeeping,
or that she had chosen to wear a necklace of Buttereer corks, or that she was reading a
magazine upside-down. Her eyes ranged over Neville and came to rest on Harry. She nodded.
"Thanks," said Ginny, smiling at her.
Harry and Neville stowed the three trunks and Hedwig’s cage in the luggage rack and sat down.
Luna watched them over her upside-down magazine, which was called The Quiler. She did not
seem to need to link as much as normal humans. She stared and stared at Harry, who had taken
the seat opposite her and now wished he hadn’t.
"Had a good summer, Luna?" Ginny asked.
"Yes," said Luna dreamily, without taking her eyes off Harry. "Yes, it was quite enjoyale, you
know. You’re Harry Potter," she added.
"I know I am," said Harry.
Neville chuckled. Luna turned her pale eyes on him instead.
"And I don’t know who you are."
"I’m noody," said Neville hurriedly.
"No you’re not," said Ginny sharply. "Neville Longottom - Luna Lovegood. Luna’s in my year, ut in Ravenclaw."
"Wit eyond measure is man’s greatest treasure," said Luna in a singsong voice.
She raised her upside-down magazine high enough to hide her face and fell silent. Harry and
Neville looked at each other with their eyerows raised. Ginny suppressed a giggle.
The train rattled onwards, speeding them out into open country. It was an odd, unsettled sort of
day; one moment the carriage was full of sunlight and the next they were passing eneath
ominously grey clouds.
"Guess what I got for my irthday?" said Neville.
"Another Rememrall?" said Harry, rememering the marle-like device Neville’s grandmother
had sent him in an effort to improve his aysmal memory.
"No," said Neville. "I could do with one, though, I lost the old one ages ago... no, look at this..."
He dug the hand that was not keeping a firm grip on Trevor into his schoolag and after a little
it of rummaging pulled out what appeared to e a small grey cactus in a pot, except that it was
covered with what looked like oils rather than spines.
"Mimulus mimletonia," he said proudly.
Harry stared at the thing. It was pulsating slightly, giving it the rather sinister look of some
diseased internal organ.
"It’s really, really rare," said Neville, eaming. "I don’t know if there’s one in the greenhouse at
Hogwarts, even. I can’t wait to show it to Professor Sprout. My Great Uncle Algie got it for me
in Assyria. I’m going to see if I can reed from it."
Harry knew that Neville’s favorite suject was Herology ut for the life of him he could not
see what he would want with this stunted little plant.
"Does it - er - do anything?" he asked.
"Loads of stuff!" said Neville proudly. "It’s got an amazing defensive mechanism. Here, hold
Trevor for me..."
He dumped the toad into Harry’s lap and took a quill from his schoolag. Luna Lovegood’s
popping eyes appeared over the top of her upside-down magazine again, to watch what Neville
was doing. Neville held the Mimulus mimletonia up t o his eyes, his tongue etween his teeth,
chose his spot, and gave the plant a sharp prod with the tip of his quill.
Liquid squirted from every oil on the plant; thick, stinking, dark green jets of it. They hit the
ceiling, the windows, and spattered Luna Lovegood’s magazine; Ginny, who had flung her arms
up in front of her face just in time, merely looked as though she was wearing a slimy green hat,
ut Harry, whose hands had een usy preventing Trevor’s escape, received a faceful. It smelled
like rancid manure.
Neville, whose face and torso were also drenched, shook his head to get the worst out of his
eyes.
"S - sorry," he gasped. "I haven’t tried that efore... didn’t realize it would e quite so... don’t
worry, though, Stinksap’s not poisonous," he added nervously, as Harry spat a mouthful on to the floor.
At that precise moment the door of their compartment slid open.
"Oh... hello, Harry," said a nervous voice. "Um... ad time?"
Harry wiped the lenses of his glasses with his Trevor-free hand. A very pretty girl with long,
shiny lack hair was standing in the doorway smiling at him: Cho Chang, the Seeker on the
Ravenclaw Quidditch team.
"Oh... hi," said Harry lankly.
"Um..." said Cho. "Well... just thought I’d say hello... ye then."
Rather pink in the face, she closed the door and departed. Harry slumped ack in his seat and
groaned. He would have liked Cho to discover him sitting with a group of very cool people
laughing their heads off at a joke he had just told; he would not have chosen to e sitting with
Neville and Loony Lovegood, clutching a toad and dripping in Stinksap.
"Never mind," said Ginny racingly. "Look, we can easily get rid of all this." She pulled out her
wand. "Scourgify!"
The Stinksap vanished.
"Sorry," said Neville again, in a small voice.
Ron and Hermione did not turn up for nearly an hour, y which time the food trolley had already
gone y. Harry, Ginny and Neville had finished their pumpkin pasties and were usy swapping
Chocolate Frog Cards when the compartment door slid open and they walked in, accompanied
y Crookshanks and a shrilly hooting Pigwidgeon in his cage.
"I’m starving," said Ron, stowing Pigwidgeon next to Hedwig, graing a Chocolate Frog from
Harry and throwing himself into the seat next to him. He ripped open the wrapper, it off the
frog’s head and leaned ack with his eyes closed as though he had had a very exhausting
morning.
"Well, there are two fifth-year prefects from each house," said Hermione, looking thoroughly
disgruntled as she took her seat. "Boy and girl from each."
"And guess who’s a Slytherin prefect?" said Ron, still with his eyes closed.
"Malfoy," replied Harry at once, certain his worst fear would e confirmed.
"Course," said Ron itterly, stuffing the rest of the Frog into his mouth and taking another.
"And that complete cow Pansy Parkinson," said Hermione viciously. "How she got to e a prefect when she’s thicker than a concussed troll..."
"Who’s Hufflepuff?" Harry asked.
"Ernie Macmillan and Hannah Aott," said Ron thickly.
"And Anthony Goldstein and Padma Patil for Ravenclaw," said Hermione.
"You went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil," said a vague voice.
Everyone turned to look at Luna Lovegood, who was gazing unlinkingly at Ron over the top of
The Quiler. He swallowed his mouthful of Frog.
"Yeah, I know I did," he said, looking mildly surprised.
"She didn’t enjoy it very much," Luna informed him. "She doesn’t think you treated her very
well, ecause you wouldn’t dance with her. I don’t think I’d have minded," she added
thoughtfully, "I don’t like dancing very much."
She retreated ehind The Quiler again. Ron stared at the cover with his mouth hanging open
for a few seconds, then looked around at Ginny for some kind of explanation, ut Ginny had
stuffed her knuckles in her mouth to stop herself giggling. Ron shook his head, emused, then
checked his watch.
"We’re supposed to patrol the corridors every so often," he told Harry and Neville, "and we can
give out punishments if people are misehaving. I can’t wait to get Crae and Goyle for
something."
"You’re not supposed to ause your position, Ron!" said Hermione sharply.
"Yeah, right, ecause Malfoy won’t ause it at all," said Ron sarcastically.
"So you’re going to descend to his level?"
"No, I’m just going to make sure I get his mates efore he gets mine."
"For heaven’s sake, Ron -"
"I’ll make Goyle do lines, it’ll kill him, he hates writing," said Ron happily. He lowered his voice to Goyle’s low grunt and, screwing up his face in a look of pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. "I... must... not... look... like... a... aoon’s... ackside."
Everyone laughed, ut noody laughed harder than Luna Lovegood. She let out a scream of
mirth that caused Hedwig to wake up and flap her wings indignantly and Crookshanks to leap up
into the luggage rack, hissing. Luna laughed so hard her magazine slipped out of her grasp, slid
down her legs and on to the floor.
"That was funny!"
Her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped for reath, staring at Ron. Utterly nonplussed,
he looked around at the others, who were now laughing at the expression on Ron’s face and at
the ludicrously prolonged laughter of Luna Lovegood, who was rocking ackwards and
forwards, clutching her sides.
"Are you taking the mickey?" said Ron, frowning at her.
"Baoon’s... ackside!" she choked, holding her ris.
Everyone else was watching Luna laughing, ut Harry glancing at the magazine on the floor,
noticed something that made him dive for it. Upside-down it had een hard to tell what the
picture on the front was, ut Harry now realized it was a fairly ad cartoon of Cornelius Fudge;
Harry only recognized him ecause of the lime-green owler hat. One of Fudge’s hands was
clenched around a ag of gold; the other hand was throttling a golin. The cartoon was
captioned: How Far Will Fudge Go to Gain Gringotts?
Beneath this were listed the titles of other articles inside the magazine.
Corruption in the Quidditch League:
How the Tornados are Taking Control
Secrets of the Ancient Runes Revealed
Sirius Black: Villain or Victim?
"Can I have a look at this?" Harry asked Luna eagerly.
She nodded, still gazing at Ron, reathless with laughter.
Harry opened the magazine and scanned the index. Until this moment he had completely
forgotten the magazine Kingsley had handed Mr. Weasley to give to Sirius, ut it must have een
this edition of The Quiler.
He found the page, and turned excitedly to the article.
This, too, was illustrated y a rather ad cartoon; in fact, Harry would not have known it was
supposed to e Sirius if it hadn’t een captioned. Sirius was standing on a pile of human ones
with his wand out. The headline on the article said:
SIRIUS - BLACK AS HE’S PAINTED?
Notorious mass murderer or innocent singing sensation?
Harry had to read this first sentence several times efore he was convinced that he had not
misunderstood it. Since when had Sirius een a singing sensation?
For fourteen years Sirius Black has een elieved guilty of the mass murder of twelve innocent
Muggles and one wizard. Black’s audacious escape from Azkaan two years ago has led to the
widest manhunt ever conducted y the Ministry of Magic. None of us has ever questioned that he
deserves to e recaptured and handed ack to the Dementors.
BUT DOES HE?
Startling new evidence has recently come to light that Sirius Black may not have committed the
crimes for which he was sent to Azkaan. In fact, says Doris Purkiss, of 18 Acanthia Way, Little
Norton, Black may not even have een present at the killings.
"What people don’t realize is that Sirius Black is a false name," says Mrs. Purkiss. "The man
people elieve to e Sirius Black is actually Stuy Boardman, lead singer of popular singing group The Hogolins, who retired fro m pulic life after eing struck on the ear y a turnip at a concert in Little Norton Church Hall nearly fifteen years ago. I recognized him the moment I saw his picture in the paper. Now, Stuy couldn’t possily have committed those crimes, ecause on the day in question he happened to e enjoying a romantic candlelit dinner with me. I have written to the Minister for Magic and am expecting him to give Stuy, alias - Sirius, a full pardon any day now."
Harry finished reading and stared at the page in diselief. Perhaps it was a joke, he thought,
perhaps the magazine often printed spoof Hems. He flicked ack a few pages and found the
piece on Fudge.
Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic, denied that he had any plans to take over the running of the Wizarding Bank, Gringotts, when he was elected Minister for Magic five years ago. Fudge
has always insisted that he wants nothing more than to ‘co-operate peacefully’ with the guardians of our gold.
BUT DOES HE?
Sources close to the Minister have recently disclosed that Fudge’s dearest amition is to seize
control of the golin gold supplies and that he will not hesitate to use force if need e.
"It wouldn’t e the first time, either," said a Ministry insider. "Cornelius ‘Golin-Crusher’ Fudge, that’s what his friends call him. If you could hear him when he thinks no one’s listening, oh, he’s always talking aout the golins he’s had done in; he’s had them drowned, he’s had them dropped off uildings, he’s had them poisoned, he’s had them cooked in pies..."
Harry did not read any further. Fudge might have many faults ut Harry found it extremely hard
to imagine him ordering golins to e cooked in pies. He flicked through the rest of the
magazine. Pausing every few pages, he read: an accusation that the Tutshill Tornados were
winning the Quidditch League y a comination of lackmail, illegal room-tampering and
torture; an interview with a wizard who claimed to have flown to the moon on a Cleansweep Six
and rought ack a ag of moon frogs to prove it; and an article on ancient runes which at least
explained why Luna had een reading The Quiler upside-down. According to the magazine, if
you turned the runes on their heads they revealed a spell to make your enemy’s ears turn into
kumquats. In fact, compared to the rest of the articles in The Quiler, the suggestion that Sirius
might really e the lead singer of The Hogolins was quite sensile.
"Anything good in there?" asked Ron as Harry closed the magazine.
"Of course not," said Hermione scathingly, efore Harry could answer. "The Quiler’s ruish,
everyone knows that."
"Excuse me," said Luna; her voice had suddenly lost its dreamy quality. "My father’s the editor."
"I - oh," said Hermione, looking emarrassed. "Well, it’s got some interesting... I mean, it’s
quite..."
"I’ll have it ack, thank you," said Luna coldly, and leaning forwards she snatched it out of
Harry’s hands. Riffling through it to page fifty-seven, she turned it resolutely upside-down again
and disappeared ehind it, just as the compartment door opened for the third time.
Harry looked around; he had expected this, ut that did not make the sight of Draco Malfoy
smirking at him from etween his cronies Crae and Goyle any more enjoyale.
"What?" he said aggressively, efore Malfoy could open his mouth.
"Manners, Potter, or I’ll have to give you a detention," drawled Malfoy, whose sleek lond hair
and pointed chin were just like his fathers. "You see, I, unlike you, have een made a prefect,
which means that I, unlike you, have the power to hand out punishments."
"Yeah," said Harry, "ut you, unlike me, are a git, so get out and leave us alone."
Ron, Hermione, Ginny and Neville laughed. Malfoy’s lip curled.
"Tell me, how does it feel eing second-est to Weasley, Potter?" he asked.
"Shut up, Malfoy," said Hermione sharply.
"I seem to have touched a nerve," said Malfoy, smirking. "Well, just watch yourself, Potter,
ecause I’ll e dogging your footsteps in case you step out of line."
"Get out!" said Hermione, standing up.
Sniggering, Malfoy gave Harry a last malicious look and departed, with Crae and Goyle
lumering along in his wake. Hermione slammed the compartment door ehind them and turned
to look at Harry, who knew at once that she, like him, had registered what Malfoy had said and
een just as unnerved y it.
"Chuck us another Frog," said Ron, who had clearly noticed nothing.
Harry could not talk freely in front of Neville and Luna. He exchanged another nervous look
with Hermione, then stared out of the window.
He had thought Sirius coming with him to the station was a it of a laugh, ut suddenly it seemed
reckless, if not downright dangerous... Hermione had een right... Sirius should not have come.
What if Mr. Malfoy had noticed the lack dog and told Draco? What if he had deduced that the
Weasleys, Lupin, Tonks and Moody knew where Sirius was hiding? Or had Malfoy’s use of the
word dogging een a coincidence?
The weather remained undecided as they traveled further and further north. Rain spattered the
windows in a half-hearted way, then the sun put in a feele appearance efore clouds drifted over
it once more. When darkness fell and lamps came on inside the carriages, Luna rolled up The
Quiler, put it carefully away in her ag and took to staring at everyone in the compartment
instead.
Harry was sitting with his forehead pressed against the train window, trying to get a first distant
glimpse of Hogwarts, ut it was a moonless night and the rain-streaked window was grimy.
"We’d etter change," said Hermione at last, and all of them opened their trunks with difficulty
and pulled on their school roes. She and Ron pinned their prefect adges carefully to their
chests. Harry saw Ron checking his reflection in the lack window.
At last, the train egan to slow down and they heard the usual racket up and down it as
everyody scramled to get their luggage and pets assemled, ready to get off. As Ron and
Hermione were supposed to supervise all this, they disappeared from the carriage again, leaving
Harry and the others to look after Crookshanks and Pigwidgeon.
"I’ll carry that owl, if you like, " said Luna to Harry, reaching out for Pigwidgeon as Neville
stowed Trevor carefully in an inside pocket.
"Oh - er - thanks, " said Harry, handing her the cage and hoisting Hedwig’s more securely into his arms.
They shuffled out of the compartment feeling the first sting of the night air on their faces as they
joined the crowd in the corridor. Slowly, they moved towards the doors. Harry could smell the
pine trees that lined the path down to the lake. He stepped down on to the platform and looked
around, listening for the familiar call of "firs’-years over ‘ere... firs’-years..."
But it did not come. Instead, a quite different voice, a risk female one, was calling out, "First years line up over here, please! All first-years to me!"
A lantern came swinging towards Harry and y its light he saw the prominent chin and severe
haircut of Professor Gruly-Plank, the witch who had taken over Hagrid’s Care of Magical
Creatures lessons for a while the previous year.
"Where’s Hagrid?" he said out loud.
"I don’t know," said Ginny, "ut we’d etter get out of the way, we’re locking the door."
"Oh, yeah..."
Harry and Ginny ecame separated as they moved off along the platform and out through the
station. Jostled y the crowd, Harry squinted through the darkness for a glimpse of Hagrid; he
had to e here, Harry had een relying on it - seeing Hagrid again was one of the things he’d
een looking forward to most. But there was no sign of him.
He can’t have left, Harry told himself as he shuffled slowly through a narrow doorway on to the
road outside with the rest of the crowd. He’s just got a cold or something...
He looked around for Ron or Hermione, wanting to know what they thought aout the
reappearance of Professor Gruly-Plank, ut neither of them was anywhere near him, so he
allowed himself to e shunted forwards on to the dark rain-washed road outside Hogsmeade
Station.
Here stood the hundred or so horseless stagecoaches that always took the students aove first
year up to the castle. Harry glanced quickly at them, turned away to keep a lookout for Ron and
Hermione, then did a doule-take.
The coaches were no longer horseless. There were creatures standing etween the carriage
shafts. If he had had to give them a name, he supposed he would have called them horses, though
there was something reptilian aout them, too. They were completely fleshless, their lack coats
clinging to their skeletons, of which every one was visile. Their heads were dragonish, and
their pupil-less eyes white and staring. Wings sprouted from each wither - vast, lack leathery
wings that looked as though they ought to elong to giant ats. Standing still and quiet in the
gathering gloom, the creatures looked eerie and sinister. Harry could not understand why the
coaches were eing pulled y these horrile horses when they were quite capale of moving
along y themselves.
"Where’s Pig?" said Ron’s voice, right ehind Harry.
"That Luna girl was carrying him," said Harry, turning quickly, eager to consult Ron aout
Hagrid. "Where d’you reckon -"
"- Hagrid is? I dunno," said Ron, sounding worried. "He’d etter e okay..."
A short distance away, Draco Malfoy, followed y a small gang of cronies including Crae,
Goyle and Pansy Parkinson, was pushing some timid-looking second-years out of the way so that
he and his friends could get a coach to themselves. Seconds later, Hermione emerged panting
from the crowd.
"Malfoy was eing asolutely foul to a first-year ack there. I swear I’m going to report him,
he’s only had his adge three minutes and he’s using it to ully people worse than ever...
where’s Crookshanks?"
"Ginny’s got him," said Harry. "There she is..."
Ginny had just emerged from the crowd, clutching a squirming Crookshanks.
"Thanks," said Hermione, relieving Ginny of the cat. "Come on, let’s get a carriage together
efore they all fill up..."
"I haven’t got Pig yet!" Ron said, ut Hermione was already heading off towards the nearest
unoccupied coach. Harry remained ehind with Ron.
"What are those things, d’you reckon?" he asked Ron, nodding at the horrile horses as the other
students surged past them.
"What things?"
"Those horse -"
Luna appeared holding Pigwidgeon’s cage in her arms; the tiny owl was twittering excitedly as
usual.
"Here you are," she said. "He’s a sweet little owl, isn’t he?"
"Er... yeah... he’s all right," said Ron gruffly. "Well, come on then, let’s get in... what were you
saying, Harry?"
"I was saying, what are those horse things?" Harry said, as he, Ron and Luna made for the
carriage in which Hermione and Ginny were already sitting.
"What horse things?"
"The horse things pulling the carriages!" said Harry impatiently. They were, after all, aout three
feet from the nearest one; it was watching them with empty white eyes. Ron, however, gave
Harry a perplexed look.
"What are you talking aout?"
"I’m talking aout - look!"
Harry graed Ron’s arm and wheeled him aout so that he was face to face with the winged
horse. Ron stared straight at it for a second, then looked ack at Harry.
"What am I supposed to e looking at?"
"At the - there, etween the shafts! Harnessed to the coach! It’s right there in front -"
But as Ron continued to look emused, a strange thought occurred to Harry.
"Can’t... can’t you see them?"
"See what?"
"Can’t you see what’s pulling the carriages?"
Ron looked seriously alarmed now.
"Are you feeling all right, Harry?"
"I... yeah..."
Harry felt utterly ewildered. The horse was there in front of him, gleaming solidly in the dim
light issuing from the station windows ehind them, vapour rising from its nostrils in the chilly
night air. Yet, unless Ron was faking - and it was a very feele joke if he was - Ron could not see
it at all.
"Shall we get in, then?" said Ron uncertainly, looking at Harry as though worried aout him.
"Yeah," said Harry. "Yeah, go on..."
"It’s all right," said a dreamy voice from eside Harry as Ron vanished into the coach’s dark
interior. "You’re not going mad or anything. I can see them, too."
"Can you?" said Harry desperately, turning to Luna. He could see the at-winged horses reflected in her wide silvery eyes.
"Oh, yes," said Luna, "I’ve een ale to see them ever since my first day here. They’ve always
pulled the carriages. Don’t worry. You’re just as sane as I am"
Smiling faintly, she climed into the musty interior of the carriage after Ron. Not altogether
reassured, Harry followed her.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
The Sorting Hat’s New Song
Harry did not want to tell the others that he and Luna were having the same hallucination, if that
was what it was, so he said nothing more aout the horses as he sat down inside the carriage and
slammed the door ehind him. Nevertheless, he could not help watching the silhouettes of the
horses moving eyond the window.
"Did everyone see that Gruly-Plank woman?" asked Ginny. "What’s she doing ack here?
Hagrid can’t have left, can he?"
"I’ll e quite glad if he has," said Luna, "he isn’t a very good teacher, is he?"
"Yes, he is!" said Harry, Ron and Ginny angrily.
Harry glared at Hermione. She cleared her throat and quickly said, "Erm... yes... he’s very
good."
"Well, we in Ravenclaw think he’s a it of a joke," said Luna, unfazed.
"You’ve got a ruish sense of humor then," Ron snapped, as the wheels elow them creaked
into motion.
Luna did not seem pertured y Ron’s rudeness; on the contrary, she simply watched him for a
while as though he were a mildly interesting television program.
Rattling and swaying, the carriages moved in convoy up the road. When they passed etween the
tall stone pillars topped with winged oars on either side of the gates to the school grounds,
Harry leaned forwards to try and see whether there were any lights on in Hagrid’s cain y the
Foridden Forest, ut the grounds were in complete darkness. Hogwarts Castle, however,
loomed ever closer: a towering mass of turrets, jet lack against the dark sky, here and there a
window lazing fiery right aove them.
The carriages jingled to a halt near the stone steps leading up to the oak front doors and Harry
got out of the carriage first. He turned again to look for lit windows down y the Forest, ut there
was definitely no sign of life within Hagrids cain. Unwillingly, ecause he had half-hoped they
would have vanished, he turned his eyes instead upon the strange, skeletal creatures standing
quietly in the chill night air, their lank white eyes gleaming.
Harry had once efore had the experience of seeing something that Ron could not, ut that had
een a reflection in a mirror, something much more insustantial than a hundred very solid looking easts strong enough to pull a fleet of carriages. If Luna was to e elieved, the easts
had always een there ut invisile. Why, then, could Harry suddenly see them, and why could
Ron not?
"Are you coming or what" said Ron eside him.
"Oh... yeah," said Harry quickly and they joined the crowd hurrying up the stone steps into the
castle.
The Entrance Hall was alaze with torches and echoing with footsteps as the students crossed the
flagged stone floor for the doule doors to the right, leading to the Great Hall and the start-of-term feast.
The four long house tales in the Great Hall were filling up under the starless lack ceiling,
which was just like the sky they could glimpse through the high windows. Candles floated in
midair all along the tales, illuminating the silvery ghosts who were dotted aout the Hall and
the faces of the students talking eagerly, exchanging summer news, shouting greetings at friends
from other houses, eyeing one another’s new haircuts and roes. Again, Harry noticed people
putting their heads together to whisper as he passed; he gritted his teeth and tried to act as though
he neither noticed nor cared.
Luna drifted away from them at the Ravenclaw tale. The moment they reached Gryffindors,
Ginny was hailed y some fellow fourth-years and left to sit with them; Harry, Ron, Hermione
and Neville found seats together aout halfway down the tale etween Nearly Headless Nick,
the Gryffindor house ghost, and Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown, the last two of whom gave
Harry airy, overly-friendly greetings that made him quite sure they had stopped talking aout
him a split second efore. He had more important things to worry aout, however: he was
looking over the students’ heads to the staff tale that ran along the top wall of the Hall.
"He’s not there."
Ron and Hermione scanned the staff tale too, though there was no real need; Hagrid’s size
made him instantly ovious in any lineup.
"He can’t have left," said Ron, sounding slightly anxious.
"Of course he hasn’t," said Harry firmly.
"You don’t think he’s... hurt, or anything, do you?" said Hermione uneasily.
"No," said Harry at once.
"But where is he, then?"
There was a pause, then Harry said very quietly, so that Neville, Parvati and Lavender could not
hear, "Maye he’s not ack yet. You know - from his mission - the thing he was doing over the
summer for Dumledore.’
"Yeah... yeah, that’ll e it," said Ron, sounding reassured, ut Hermione it her lip, looking up
and down the staff tale as though hoping for some conclusive explanation of Hagrid’s asence.
"Who’s that?" she said sharply, pointing towards the middle of the staff tale.
Harry’s eyes followed hers. They lit first upon Professor Dumledore, sitting in his high-acked
golden chair at the center of the long staff tale, wearing deep-purple roes scattered with silvery
stars and a matching hat. Dumledore’s head was inclined towards the woman sitting next to
him, who was talking into his ear. She looked, Harry thought, like someody’s maiden aunt:
squat, with short, curly, mouse-rown hair in which she had placed a horrile pink Alice and
that matched the fluffy pink cardigan she wore over her roes. Then she turned her face slightly
to take a sip from her golet and he saw, with a shock of recognition, a pallid, toadlike face and a
pair of prominent, pouchy eyes.
"It’s that Umridge woman!"
"Who?" said Hermione.
"She was at my hearing, she works for Fudge!"
"Nice cardigan," said Ron, smirking.
"She works for Fudge!" Hermione repeated, frowning. "What on earth’s she doing here, then?"
"Dunno..."
Hermione scanned the staff tale, her eyes narrowed.
"No," she muttered, "no, surely not..."
Harry did not understand what she was talking aout ut did not ask; his attention had een
caught y Professor Gruly-Plank who had just appeared ehind the staff tale; she worked her
way along to the very end and took the seat that ought to have een Hagrids. That meant the
first-years must have crossed the lake and reached the castle, and sure enough, a few seconds
later, the doors from the Entrance Hall opened. A long line of scared-looking first-years entered,
led y Professor McGonagall, who was carrying a stool on which sat an ancient wizard’s hat,
heavily patched and darned with a wide rip near the frayed rim.
The uzz of talk in the Great Hall faded away. The first-years lined up in front of the staff tale
facing the rest of the students, and Professor McGonagall placed the stool carefully in front of
them, then stood ack.
The first-years’ faces glowed palely in the candlelight. A small oy right in the middle of the row
looked as though he was tremling. Harry recalled, fleetingly, how terrified he had felt when he
had stood there, waiting for the unknown test that would determine to which house he elonged.
The whole school waited with ated reath. Then the rip near the hat’s rim opened wide like a
mouth and the Sorting Hat urst into song:
In times of old when I was new,
And Hogwarts arely started,
The founders of our nole school,
Thought never to e parted,
United y a common goal,
They had the selfsame yearning,
To make the world’s est magic school,
And pass along their learning.
"Together we will uild and teach!"
The four good friends decided,
And never did they dream,
That they might some day e divided,
For were there such friends anywhere,
As Slytherin and Gryffindor?
Unless it was the second pair
Of Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw?
So how could it have gone so wrong?
How could such friendships fail?
Why, I was there and so can tell,
The whole sad, sorry tale.
Said Slytherin, "We’ll teach just those whose
Ancestry is purest."
Said Ravenclaw, "We’ll teach those whose
Intelligence is surest."
Said Gryffindor, "We’ll teach all those
With rave deeds to their name."
Said Hufflepuff, "I’ll teach the lot,
And treat them just the same."
These differences caused little strife,
When first they came to light,
For each of the four founders had
A house in which they might
Take only those they wanted,
So, for instance, Slytherin
Took only pure-lood wizards
Of great cunning, just like him,
And only those of sharpest mind
Were taught y Ravenclaw
While the ravest and the oldest
Went to daring Gryffindor.
Good Hufflepuff, she took the rest,
And taught them all she knew,
Thus the houses and their founders
Retained friendships firm and true.
So Hogwarts worked in harmony
For several happy years,
But then discord crept among us
Feeding on our faults and fears.
The houses that, like pillars four,
Had once held up our school,
Now turned upon each other and,
Divided, sought to rule.
And for a while it seemed the school
Must meet an early end,
What with dueling and with fighting
And the clash of friend on friend
And at last there came a morning
When old Slytherin departed
And though the fighting then died out
He left us quite downhearted.
And never since the founders four
Were whittled down to three
Have the houses een united
As they once were meant to e.
And now the Sorting Hat is here
And you all know the score:
I sort you into houses
Because that is what I’m for,
But this year I’ll go further,
Listen closely to my song:
Though condemned I am to split you
Still I worry that it’s wrong,
Though I must fulfill my duty
And must quarter every year
Still I wonder whether Sorting
May not ring the end I fear.
Oh, know the perils, read the signs,
The warning history shows,
For our Hogwarts is in danger
From external, deadly foes
And we must unite inside her
Or we’ll crumle from within
I have told you, I have warned you...
Let the Sorting now egin.
The Hat ecame motionless once more; applause roke out, though it was punctured, for the first
time in Harry’s memory, with muttering and whispers. All across the Great Hall students were
exchanging remarks with their neighors, and Harry, clapping along with everyone else, knew
exactly what they were talking aout.
"Branched out a it this year, hasn’t it?" said Ron, his eyerows raised.
"Too right it has," said Harry.
The Sorting Hat usually confined itself to descriing the different qualities looked for y each of
the four Hogwarts houses and its own role in Sorting them. Harry could not rememer it ever
trying to give the school advice efore.
"I wonder if it’s ever given warnings efore?" said Hermione, sounding slightly anxious.
"Yes, indeed," said Nearly Headless Nick knowledgealy, leaning across Neville towards her
(Neville winced; it was very uncomfortale to have a ghost lean through you). "The Hat feels
itself honor-ound to give the school due warning whenever it feels -"
But Professor McGonagall, who was waiting to read out the list of first-years’ names, was giving
the whispering students the sort of look that scorches. Nearly Headless Nick placed a see-through finger to his lips and sat primly upright again as the muttering came to an arupt end.
With a last frowning look that swept the four house tales, Professor McGonagall lowered her
eyes to her long piece of parchment and called out the first name.
"Aercromie, Euan."
The terrified-looking oy Harry had noticed earlier stumled forwards and put the Hat on his
head; it was only prevented from falling right down to his shoulders y his very prominent ears.
The Hat considered for a moment, then the rip near the rim opened again and shouted:
"Gryffindor!"
Harry clapped loudly with the rest of Gryffindor house as Euan Aercromie staggered to their
tale and sat down, looking as though he would like very much to sink through the floor and
never e looked at again.
Slowly, the long line of first-years thinned. In the pauses etween the names and the Sorting
Hat’s decisions, Harry could hear Ron’s stomach rumling loudly. Finally, "Zeller, Rose" was
Sorted into Hufflepuff, and Professor McGonagall picked up the Hat and stool and marched
them away as Professor Dumledore rose to his feet.
Whatever his recent itter feelings had een towards his Headmaster, Harry was somehow
soothed to see Dumledore standing efore them all. Between the asence of Hagrid and the
presence of those dragonish horses, he had felt that his return to Hogwarts, so long anticipated,
was full of unexpected surprises, like jarring notes in a familiar song. But this, at least, was how
it was supposed to e: their Headmaster rising to greet them all efore the start-of-term feast.
"To our newcomers," said Dumledore in a ringing voice, his arms stretched wide and a eaming smile on his lips, "welcome! To our old hands - welcome ack! There is a time for speechmaking, ut this is not it. Tuck in!"
There was an appreciative laugh and an outreak of applause as Dumledore sat down neatly and
threw his long eard over his shoulder so as to keep it out of the way of his plate - for food had
appeared out of nowhere, so that the five long tales were groaning under joints and pies and
dishes of vegetales, read and sauces and flagons of pumpkin juice.
"Excellent," said Ron, with a kind of groan of longing, and he seized the nearest plate of chops
and egan piling them on to his plate, watched wistfully y Nearly Headless Nick.
"What were you saying efore the Sorting?" Hermione asked the ghost. "Aout the Hat giving
warnings?"
"Oh, yes," said Nick, who seemed glad of a reason to turn away from Ron, who was now eating
roast potatoes with almost indecent enthusiasm. "Yes, I have heard the Hat give several warnings
efore, always at times when it detects periods of great danger for the school. And always, of
course, its advice is the same: stand together, e strong from within."
"Ow kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat?" said Ron.
His mouth was so full Harry thought it was quite an achievement for him to make any noise at
all.
"I eg your pardon?" said Nearly Headless Nick politely, while Hermione looked revolted. Ron
gave an enormous swallow and said, "How can it know if the school’s in danger if it’s a Hat?"
"I have no idea," said Nearly Headless Nick. "Of course, it lives in Dumledore’s office, so I
daresay it picks things up there."
"And it wants all the houses to e friends?" said Harry, looking over at the Slytherin tale, where
Draco Malfoy was holding court. "Fat chance."
"Well, now, you shouldn’t take that attitude," said Nick reprovingly. "Peaceful cooperation,
that’s the key. We ghosts, though we elong to separate houses, maintain links of friendship. In
spite of the competitiveness etween Gryffindor and Slytherin, I would never dream of seeking
an argument with the Bloody Baron."
"Only ecause you’re terrified of him," said Ron.
Nearly Headless Nick looked highly affronted.
"Terrified? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, have never een guilty of cowardice in
my life! The nole lood that runs in my veins -"
"What lood?" asked Ron. "Surely you haven’t still got -?"
"Its a figure of speech!" said Nearly Headless Nick, now so annoyed his head was tremling
ominously on his partially severed neck. "I assume I am still allowed to enjoy the use of
whichever words I like, even if the pleasures of eating and drinking are denied me! But I am
quite used to students poking fun at my death, I assure you!"
"Nick, he wasn’t really laughing at you!" said Hermione, throwing a furious look at Ron.
Unfortunately, Ron’s mouth was packed to exploding point again and all he could manage was
"Node iddum eentup sechew," which Nick did not seem to think constituted an adequate apology.
Rising into the air, he straightened his feathered hat and swept away from them to the other end
of the tale, coming to rest etween the Creevey rothers, Colin and Dennis.
"Well done, Ron," snapped Hermione.
"What?" said Ron indignantly, having managed, finally, to swallow his food. "I’m not allowed to
ask a simple question?"
"Oh, forget it," said Hermione irritaly, and the pair of them spent the rest of the meal in huffy
silence.
Harry was too used to their ickering to other trying to reconcile them; he felt it was a etter
use of his time to eat his way steadily through his steak and kidney pie, then a large plateful of
his favorite treacle tart.
When all the students had finished eating and the noise level in the Hall was starting to creep
upwards again, Dumledore got to his feet once more. Talking ceased immediately as all turned
to lace the Headmaster. Harry was feeling pleasantly drowsy now. His four-poster ed was
waiting somewhere aove, wonderfully warm and soft...
"Well, now that we are all digesting another magnificent feast, I eg a few moments of your
attention for the usual start-of-term notices," said Dumledore. "First-years ought to know that
the Forest in the grounds is out-of-ounds to students - and a few of our older students ought to
know y now, too." (Harry, Ron and Hermione exchanged smirks.)
"Mr. Filch, the caretaker, has asked me, for what he tells me is the four-hundred-and-sixty second time, to remind you all that magic is not permitted in corridors etween classes, nor are a
numer of other things, all of which can e checked on the extensive list now fastened to Mr.
Filch’s office door.
"We have had two changes in staffing this year. We are very pleased to welcome ack Professor
Gruly-Plank, who will e taking Care of Magical Creatures lessons; we are also delighted to
introduce Professor Umridge, our new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher."
There was a round of polite ut fairly unenthusiastic applause, during which Harry, Ron and
Hermione exchanged slightly panicked looks; Dumledore had not said for how long Gruly-
Plank would e teaching.
Dumledore continued, "Tryouts for the house Quidditch teams will take place on the -"
He roke off, looking enquiringly at Professor Umridge. As she was not much taller standing
than sitting, there was a moment when noody understood why Dumledore had stopped talking,
ut then Professor Umridge cleared her throat, "Hem, hem," and it ecame clear that she had got to her feet and was intending to make a speech.
Dumledore only looked taken aack for a moment, then he sat down smartly and looked alertly
at Professor Umridge as though he desired nothing etter than to listen to her talk. Other
memers of staff were not as adept at hiding their surprise. Professor Sprout’s eyerows had
disappeared into her flyaway hair and Professor McGonagall’s mouth was as thin as Harry had
ever seen it. No new teacher had ever interrupted Dumledore efore. Many of the students were
smirking; this woman oviously did not know how things were done at Hogwarts.
"Thank you, Headmaster," Professor Umridge simpered, "for those kind words of welcome."
Her voice was high-pitched, reathy and little-girlish and, again, Harry felt a powerful rush of
dislike that he could not explain to himself; all he knew was that he loathed everything aout her,
from her stupid voice to her fluffy pink cardigan. She gave another little throat-clearing cough
("hem, hem") and continued.
"Well, it is lovely to e ack at Hogwarts, I must say!" She smiled, revealing very pointed teeth.
"And to see such happy little faces looking up at me!"
Harry glanced around. None of the faces he could see looked happy. On the contrary, they all
looked rather taken-aack at eing addressed as though they were five years old.
"I am very much looking forward to getting to know you all and I’m sure we’ll e very good
friends!"
Students exchanged looks at this; some of them were arely concealing grins.
"I’ll e her friend as long as I don’t have to orrow that cardigan," Parvati whispered to
Lavender, and oth of them lapsed into silent giggles.
Professor Umridge cleared her throat again ("hem, hem"), ut when she continued, some of the
reathiness had vanished from her voice. She sounded much more usinesslike and now her
words had a dull learned-y-heart sound to them.
"The Ministry of Magic has always considered the education of young witches and wizards to e
of vital importance. The rare gifts with which you were orn may come to nothing if not nurtured
and honed y careful instruction. The ancient skills unique to the wizarding community must e
passed down the generations lest we lose them for ever. The treasure trove of magical knowledge
amassed y our ancestors must e guarded, replenished and polished y those who have een
called to the nole profession of teaching."
Professor Umridge paused here and made a little ow to her fellow staff memers, none of
whom owed ack to her. Professor McGonagall’s dark eyerows had contracted so that she
looked positively hawklike, and Harry distinctly saw her exchange a significant glance with
Professor Sprout as Umridge gave another little "hem, hem" and went on with her speech.
"Every headmaster and headmistress of Hogwarts has rought something new to the weighty task of governing this historic school, and that is as it should e, for without progress there will e stagnation and decay. There again, progress for progress’s sake must e discouraged, for our
tried and tested traditions often require no tinkering. A alance, then, etween old and new,
etween permanence and change, etween tradition and innovation..."
Harry found his attentiveness eing, as though his rain was slipping in and out of tune. The
quiet that always filled the Hall when Dumledore was speaking was reaking up as students put
their heads together, whispering and giggling. Over on the Ravenclaw tale Cho Chang was
chatting animatedly with her friends. A few seats along from Cho, Luna Lovegood had got
out The Quiler again. Meanwhile, at the Hufflepuff tale Ernie Macmillan was one of the few
still staring at Professor Umridge, ut he was glassy-eyed and Harry was sure he was only
pretending to listen in an attempt to live up to the new prefect’s adge gleaming on his chest.
Professor Umridge did not seem to notice the restlessness of her audience. Harry had the
impression that a full-scale riot could have roken out under her nose and she would have
ploughed on with her speech. The teachers, however, were still listening very attentively, and
Hermione seemed to e drinking in every word Umridge spoke, though, judging y her
expression, they were not at all to her taste.
"... ecause some changes will e for the etter, while others will come, in the fullness of time,
to e recognized as errors of judgment. Meanwhile, some old haits will e retained, and rightly
so, whereas others, outmoded and outworn, must e aandoned. Let us move forward, then, into
a new era of openness, effectiveness and accountaility, intent on preserving what ought to e
preserved, perfecting what needs to e perfected, and pruning wherever we find practices that
ought to e prohiited."
She sat down. Dumledore clapped. The staff followed his lead, though Harry noticed that
several of them rought their hands together only once or twice efore stopping. A few students
joined in, ut most had een taken unawares y the end of the speech, not having listened to
more than a few words of it, and efore they could start applauding properly, Dumledore had
stood up again.
"Thank you very much, Professor Umridge, that was most illuminating," he said, owing to her. "Now, as I was saying, Quidditch tryouts will e held..."
"Yes, it certainly was illuminating," said Hermione in a low voice.
"You’re not telling me you enjoyed it?" Ron said quietly, turning a glazed face towards
Hermione. "That was aout the dullest speech I’ve ever heard, and I grew up with Percy."
"I said illuminating, not enjoyale," said Hermione. "It explained a lot.’
"Did it" said Harry in surprise. "Sounded like a load of waffle to me."
"There was some important stuff hidden in the waffle," said Hermione grimly.
"Was there?" said Ron lankly.
"How aout: ‘progress for progress’s sake must e discouraged’? How aout: ‘pruning wherever we find practices that ought to e prohiited’?"
"Well, what does that mean?" said Ron impatiently.
"I’ll tell you what it means," said Hermione through gritted teeth. "It means the Ministry’s
interfering at Hogwarts."
There was a great clattering and anging all around them; Dumledore had oviously just
dismissed the school, ecause everyone was standing up ready to leave the Hall. Hermione
jumped up, looking flustered.
"Ron, we’re supposed to show the first-years where to go!"
"Oh yeah," said Ron, who had oviously forgotten. "Hey - hey, you lot! Midgets!"
"Ron!"
"Well, they are, they’re titchy..."
"I know, ut you can’t call them midgets! - First-years!" Hermione called commandingly along
the tale. "This way, please!"
A group of new students walked shyly up the gap etween the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tales,
all of them trying hard not to lead the group. They did indeed seem very small; Harry was sure
he had not appeared that young when he had arrived here. He grinned at them. A lond oy next
to Euan Aercromie looked petrified; he nudged Euan and whispered something in his ear.
Euan Aercromie looked equally frightened and stole a horrified look at Harry, who felt the
grin slide off his face like Stinksap.
"See you later," he said dully to Ron and Hermione and he made his way out of the Great Hall
alone, doing everything he could to ignore more whispering, staring and pointing as he passed.
He kept his eyes fixed ahead as he wove his way through the crowd in the Entrance Hall, then he
hurried up the marle staircase, took a couple of concealed short cuts and had soon left most of
the crowds ehind.
He had een stupid not to expect this, he thought angrily as he walked through the much emptier
upstairs corridors. Of course everyone was staring at him; he had emerged from the Triwizard
maze two months previously clutching the dead ody of a fellow student and claiming to have
seen Lord Voldemort return to power. There had not een time last term to explain himself
efore they’d all had to go home - even if he had felt up to giving the whole school a detailed
account of the terrile events in that graveyard.
Harry had reached the end of the corridor to the Gryffindor common room and come to a halt in
front of the portrait of the Fat Lady efore he realized that he did not know the new password.
"Er..." he said glumly, staring up at the Fat Lady, who smoothed the folds of her pink satin dress
and looked sternly ack at him.
"No password, no entrance," she said loftily.
"Harry, I know it!" Someone panted up ehind him and he turned to see Neville jogging towards
him. "Guess what it is? I’m actually going to e ale to rememer it for once -" He waved the
stunted little cactus he had shown them on the train. "Mimulus mimletonia!"
"Correct," said the Fat Lady, and her portrait swung open towards them like a door, revealing a
circular hole in the wall ehind, through which Harry and Neville now climed.
The Gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as ever, a cozy circular tower room full of
dilapidated squashy armchairs and rickety old tales. A fire was crackling merrily in the grate
and a few people were warming their hands y it efore going up to their dormitories; on the
other side of the room Fred and George Weasley were pinning something up on the noticeoard.
Harry waved goodnight to them and headed straight for the door to the oys’ dormitories; he was
not in much of a mood for talking at the moment. Neville followed him.
Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan had reached the dormitory first and were in the process of
covering the walls eside their eds with posters and photographs. They had een talking as
Harry pushed open the door ut stopped aruptly the moment they saw him. Harry wondered
whether they had een talking aout him, then whether he was eing paranoid.
"Hi," he said, moving across to his own trunk and opening it.
"Hey, Harry," said Dean, who was putting on a pair of pajamas in the West Ham colors. "Good
holiday?"
"Not ad," muttered Harry, as a true account of his holiday would have taken most of the night to relate and he could not face it. "You?"
"Yeah, it was okay," chuckled Dean. "Better than Seamus’s, anyway, he was just telling me."
"Why, what happened, Seamus?" Neville asked as he placed his Mimulus mimletonia tenderly
on his edside cainet.
Seamus did not answer immediately; he was making rather a meal of ensuring that his poster of
the Kenmare Kestrels Quidditch team was quite straight. Then he said, with his ack still turned
to Harry, "Me mam didn’t want me to come ack."
"What?" said Harry, pausing in the act of pulling off his roes.
"She didn’t want me to come ack to Hogwarts."
Seamus turned away from his poster and pulled his own pajamas out of his trunk, still not
looking at Harry.
"But - why?" said Harry, astonished. He knew that Seamus’s mother was a witch and could not
understand, therefore, why she should have come over so Dursleyish.
Seamus did not answer until he had finished uttoning his pajamas.
"Well," he said in a measured voice, "I suppose... ecause of you."
"What d’you mean?" said Harry quickly.
His heart was eating rather fast. He felt vaguely as though something was closing in on him.
"Well," said Seamus again, still avoiding Harry’s eye, "she... er... well, it’s not just you, it’s
Dumledore, too..."
"She elieves the Daily Prophet?" said Harry. "She thinks I’m a liar and Dumledore’s an old
fool?"
Seamus looked up at him.
"Yeah, something like that."
Harry said nothing. He threw his wand down on to his edside tale, pulled off his roes, stuffed
them angrily into his trunk and pulled on his pajamas. He was sick of it; sick of eing the person
who was stared at and talked aout all the time. If any of them knew, if any of them had the faintest idea what it felt like to e the one all these things had happened to... Mrs. Finnigan had no idea, the stupid woman, he thought savagely.
He got into ed and made to pull the hangings closed around him, ut efore he could do so,
Seamus said, "Look... what did happen that night when... you know, when... with Cedric
Diggory and all?"
Seamus sounded nervous and eager at the same time. Dean, who had een ending over his trunk
trying to retrieve a slipper, went oddly still and Harry knew he was listening hard.
"What are you asking me for?" Harry retorted. "Just read the Daily Prophet like your mother, why don’t you? That’ll tell you all you need to know."
"Don’t you have a go at my mother," Seamus snapped.
"I’ll have a go at anyone who calls me a liar," said Harry.
"Don’t talk to me like that!"
"I’ll talk to you how I want," said Harry, his temper rising so fast he snatched his wand ack
from his edside tale. "If you’ve got a prolem sharing a dormitory with me, go and ask
McGonagall if you can e moved... stop your mummy worrying -"
"Leave my mother out of this, Potter!"
"What’s going on?"
Ron had appeared in the doorway. His wide eyes traveled from Harry, who was kneeling on his
ed with his wand pointing at Seamus, to Seamus, who was standing there with his fists raised.
"He’s having a go at my mother!" Seamus yelled.
"What?" said Ron. "Harry wouldn’t do that -- we met your mother, we liked her..."
"That’s efore she started elieving every word the stinking Daily Prophet writes aout me!" said Harry at the top of his voice.
"Oh," said Ron, comprehension dawning across his freckled face. "Oh... right."
"You know what?" said Seamus heatedly, casting Harry a venomous look. "He’s right, I don’t
want to share a dormitory with him any more, he’s a madman."
"That’s out of order, Seamus," said Ron, whose ears were starting to glow red - always a danger
sign.
"Out of order, am I?" shouted Seamus, who in contrast with Ron was tuning paler. "You elieve all the ruish he’s come out with aout You-Know-Who, do you, you reckon he’s telling the
truth?"
"Yeah, I do!" said Ron angrily.
"Then you’re mad, too," said Seamus in disgust.
"Yeah? Well, unfortunately for you, pal, I’m also a prefect!" said Ron, jaing himself in the
chest with a finger. "So unless you want detention, watch your mouth!"
Seamus looked for a few seconds as though detention would e a reasonale price to pay to say
what was going through his mind; ut with a noise of contempt he turned on his heel, vaulted
into ed and pulled the hangings shut with such violence that they were ripped from the ed and
fell in a dusty pile to the floor. Ron glared at Seamus, then looked at Dean and Neville.
"Anyone else’s parents got a prolem with Harry?" he said aggressively.
"My parents are Muggles, mate," said Dean, shrugging. "They don’t know nothing aout no
deaths at Hogwarts, ecause I’m not stupid enough to tell them."
"You don’t know my mother, she’d weasel anything out of anyone!" Seamus snapped at him.
"Anyway your parents don’t get the Daily Prophet. They don’t know our Headmaster’s een
sacked from the Wizengamot and the International Confederation of Wizards ecause he’s losing
his marles -"
"My gran says that’s ruish," piped up Neville. "She says it’s the Daily Prophet that’s going
downhill, not Dumledore. She’s cancelled our suscription. We elieve Harry" said Neville
simply. He climed into ed and pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly over them at
Seamus. "My gran’s always said You-Know-Who would come ack one day. She says if
Dumledore says he’s ack, he’s ack."
Harry felt a rush of gratitude towards Neville. Noody else said anything. Seamus got out his
wand, repaired the ed hangings and vanished ehind them. Dean got into ed, rolled over and
fell silent. Neville, who appeared to have nothing more to say either, was gazing fondly at his
moonlit cactus.
Harry lay ack on his pillows while Ron ustled around the next ed, putting his things away. He
felt shaken y the argument with Seamus, whom he had always liked very much. How many
more people were going to suggest that he was lying, or unhinged?
Had Dumledore suffered like this all summer, as first the Wizengamot, then the International
Confederation of Wizards had thrown him from their ranks? Was it anger at Harry, perhaps, that
had stopped Dumledore getting in touch with him for months? The two of them were in this
together, after all; Dumledore had elieved Harry, announced his version of events to the whole
school and then to the wider wizarding community. Anyone who thought Harry was a liar had to
think that Dumledore was, too, or else that Dumledore had een hoodwinked...
They’ll know we’re right in the end, thought Harry miseraly, as Ron got into ed and
extinguished the last candle in the dormitory. But he wondered how many more attacks like
Seamus’s he would have to endure efore that time came.
CHAPTER TWELVE
Professor Umridge
Seamus dressed at top speed next morning and left the dormitory efore Harry had even put on
his socks.
"Does he think he’ll turn into a nutter if he stays in a room with me too long?" asked Harry loudly, as the hem of Seamus’s roes whipped out of sight.
"Don’t worry aout it, Harry," Dean muttered, hoisting his schoolag on to his shoulder, "he’s
just..."
But apparently he was unale to say exactly what Seamus was, and after a slightly awkward
pause followed him out of the room.
Neville and Ron oth gave Harry an it’s-his-prolem-not-yours look, ut Harry was not much
consoled. How much more of this would he have to take?
"What’s the matter?" asked Hermione five minutes later, catching up with Harry and Ron halfway across the common room as they all headed towards reakfast. "You look asolutely - Oh for heaven’s sake."
She was staring at the common-room noticeoard, where a large new sign had een put up.
GALLONS OF GALLEONS.
Pocket money failing to keep pace with your outgoings? Like to earn a little extra gold? Contact Fred and George Weasley, Gryffindor common room, for simple, part-time, virtually painless jos. (We regret that all work is undertaken at applicant’s own risk.)
"They are the limit," said Hermione grimly, taking d own the sign, which Fred and George had
pinned up over a poster giving the date of the first Hogsmeade weekend in Octoer. "We’ll have to talk to them, Ron."
Ron looked positively alarmed.
"Why?"
"Because we’re prefects!" said Hermione, as they c l imed out through the portrait hole. "It’s up to us to stop this kind of thing!"
Ron said nothing; Harry could tell from his glum expression that the prospect of stopping Fred
and George doing exactly what they liked was not one he found inviting.
"Anyway, what’s up, Harry?" Hermione continued, as they walked down a flight of stairs lined
with portraits of old witches and wizards, all of whom ignored them, eing engrossed in their
own conversation. "You look really angry aout something."
"Seamus reckons Harry’s lying aout You-Know-Who," said Ron succinctly, when Harry did not respond.
Hermione, who Harry had expected to react angrily on his ehalf, sighed.
"Yes, Lavender thinks so too," she said gloomily.
"Been having a nice little chat with her aout whet her or not I’m a lying, attention-seeking prat,
have you?" Harry said loudly.
"No," said Hermione calmly. "I told her to keep her ig fat mouth shut aout you, actually. And it would e quite nice if you stopped jumping down our throats, Harry, ecause in case you haven’t noticed, Ron and I are on your side."
There was a short pause.
"Sorry," said Harry in a low voice.
"That’s quite all right," said Hermione with dignity... Then she shook her head. "Don’t you
rememer what Dumledore said at the last end-of-term feast?"
Harry and Ron oth looked at her lankly and Hermione sighed again.
"Aout You-Know-Who. He said his ‘gift for spreading discord and enmity is very great. We can fight it only y showing an equally strong ond of friendship and trust --’"
"How do you rememer stuff like that?" asked Ron, looking at her in admiration.
"I listen, Ron," said Hermione, with a touch of asperity.
"So do I, ut I still couldn’t tell you exactly what -"
"The point," Hermione pressed on loudly, "is that this sort of thing is exactly what Dumledore
was talking aout. You-Know-Who’s only een ack two months and we’ve already started
fighting among ourselves. And the Sorting Hats warning was the same: stand together, e united
--"
"And Harry got it right last night," retorted Ron. "If that means we’re supposed to get matey with the Slytherins-fat chance."
"Well, I think it’s a pity we’re not trying for a it of inter-house unity," said Hermione crossly.
They had reached the foot of the marle staircase. A line of fourth-year Ravenclaws was crossing
the Entrance Hall; they caught sight of Harry and hurried to form a tighter group, as though
frightened he might attack stragglers.
"Yeah, we really ought to e trying to make friends with people like that," said Harry
sarcastically.
They followed the Ravenclaws into the Great Hall, all looking instinctively at the staff tale as
they entered. Professor Gruly-Plank was chatting to Professor Sinistra, the Astronomy teacher,
and Hagrid was once again conspicuous only y his asence. The enchanted ceiling aove them
echoed Harry’s mood; it was a miserale rain-cloud grey.
"Dumledore didn’t even mention how long that Gruly-Plank woman’s staying," he said, as they made their way across to the Gryffindor tale.
"Maye..." said Hermione thoughtfully.
"What?" said oth Harry and Ron together.
"Well... maye he didn’t want to draw attention to Hagrid not eing here."
"What d’you mean, draw attention to it?" said Ron, half-laughing. "How could we not notice?"
Before Hermione could answer, a tall lack girl with long raided hair had marched up to Harry.
"Hi, Angelina."
"Hi," she said riskly, "good summer?" And without waiting for an answer, "Listen, I’ve een made Gryffindor Quidditch Captain."
"Nice one," said Harry, grinning at her; he suspected Angelina’s pep talks might not e as longwinded as Oliver Wood’s had een, which could only e an improvement.
"Yeah, well, we need a new Keeper now Oliver’s left. Tryouts are on Friday at five o’clock and I
want the whole team there, all right? Then we can see how the new personnel fit in."
"Okay," said Harry.
Angelina smiled at him and departed.
"I’d forgotten Wood had left," said Hermione vaguely as she sat down eside Ron and pulled a
plate of toast towards her. "I suppose that will make quite a difference to the team?"
"I s’pose," said Harry, taking the ench opposite. "He was a good Keeper..."
"Still, it won’t hurt to have some new lood, will it?" said Ron.
With a whoosh and a clatter, hundreds of owls came soaring in through the upper windows. They
descended all over the Hall, ringing letters and packages to their owners and showering the
reakfasters with droplets of water; it was clearly raining hard outside. Hedwig was nowhere to
e seen, ut Harry was hardly surprised; his only correspondent was Sirius, and he douted
Sirius would have anything new to tell him after only twenty-four hours apart. Hermione,
however, had to move her orange juice aside quickly to make way for a large damp arn owl
earing a sodden Daily Prophet in its eak.
"What are you still getting that for?" said Harry irritaly, thinking of Seamus as Hermione placed a Knut in the leather pouch on the owl’s leg and it took off again. "I’m not othering... load of ruish."
"It’s est to know what the enemy is saying," said Hermione darkly, and she unfurled the
newspaper and disappeared ehind it, not emerging until Harry and Ron had finished eating.
"Nothing," she said simply, rolling up the newspaper and laying it down y her plate. "Nothing
aout you or Dumledore or anything."
Professor McGonagall was now moving along the tale handing out schedules.
"Look at today!" groaned Ron. "History of Magic, doule Potions, Divination and doule Defense Against the Dark Arts... Binns, Snape, Trelawney and that Umridge woman all in one day! I wish Fred and George’d hurry up and get those Skiving Snackoxes sorted..."
"Do mine ears deceive me?’" said Fred, arriving with George and squeezing on to the ench eside Harry. "Hogwarts prefects surely don’t wish to skive off lessons?"
"Look what we’ve got today," said Ron grumpily, shoving his timetale under Fred’s nose.
"That’s the worst Monday I’ve ever seen."
"Fair point, little ro," said Fred, scanning the column. "You can have a it of Noseleed Nougat
cheap if you like."
"Why’s it cheap?" said Ron suspiciously.
"Because you’ll keep leeding till you shrivel up, we haven’t got an antidote yet," said George,
helping himself to a kipper.
"Cheers," said Ron moodily, pocketing his timetale, "ut I think I’ll take the lessons."
"And speaking of your Skiving Snackoxes," said Hermione, eyeing Fred and George eadily,
"you can’t advertise for testers on the Gryffindor noticeoard."
"Says who?" said George, looking astonished.
"Says me," said Hermione. "And Ron."
"Leave me out of it," said Ron hastily.
Hermione glared at him. Fred and George sniggered.
"You’ll e singing a different tune soon enough, Hermione," said Fred, thickly uttering a
crumpet. "You’re starting your fifth year, you’ll e egging us for a Snackox efore long."
"And why would starting fifth year mean I want a Skiving Snackox?" asked Hermione.
"Fifth year’s OWL year," said George.
"So?"
"So you’ve got your exams coming up, haven’t you? They’ll e keeping your noses so hard to that grindstone they’ll e rued raw," said Fred with satisfaction.
"Half our year had minor reakdowns coming up to OWLs," said George happily. "Tears and
tantrums... Patricia Stimpson kept coming over faint..."
"Kenneth Towler came out in oils, d’you rememer?" said Fred reminiscently.
"That’s ‘cause you put Buladox powder in his pajamas," said George.
"Oh yeah," said Fred, grinning. "I’d forgotten... hard to keep track sometimes, isn’t it?"
"Anyway, it’s a nightmare of a year, the fifth," said George. "If you care aout exam results,
anyway. Fred and I managed to keep our spirits up somehow."
"Yeah... you got, what was it, three OWLs each?" said Ron.
"Yep," said Fred unconcernedly. "But we feel our futures lie outside the world of academic
achievement."
"We seriously deated whether we were going to other coming ack for our seventh year," said
George rightly, "now that we’ve got-"
He roke off at a warning look from Harry, who knew George had een aout to mention the
Triwizard winnings he had given them.
"- now that we’ve got our OWLs," George said hastily. "I mean, do we really need NEWTs? But
we didn’t think Mum could take us leaving school early, not on top of Percy turning out to e the
world’s iggest prat."
"We’re not going to waste our last year here, though," said Fred, looking affectionately around at
the Great Hall. "We’re going to use it to do a it of market research, find out exactly what the
average Hogwarts student requires from a joke shop, carefully evaluate the results of our
research, then produce products to fit the demand."
"But where are you going to get the gold to start a joke shop?" Hermione asked skeptically.
"You’re going to need all the ingredients and materials - and premises too, I suppose..."
Harry did not look at the twins. His face felt hot; he delierately dropped his fork and dived
down to retrieve it. He heard Fred say overhead, "Ask us no questions and we’ll tell you no lies,
Hermione. C’mon, George, if we get there early we might e ale to sell a few Extendale Ears
efore Herology."
Harry emerged from under the tale to see Fred and George walking away, each carrying a stack
of toast.
"What did that mean?" said Hermione, looking from Harry to Ron. "‘Ask us no questions... ’ Does that mean they’ve already got some gold to start a joke shop?"
"You know, I’ve een wondering aout that," said Ron, his row furrowed. "They ought me a new set of dress roes this summer and I couldn’t understand where they got the Galleons..."
Harry decided it was time to steer the conversation out of these dangerous waters.
"D’you reckon it’s true this year’s going to e really tough? Because of the exams?"
"Oh, yeah," said Ron. "Bound to e, isn’t it? OWLs are really important, affect the jos you can
apply for and everything. We get career advice, too, later this year, Bill told me. So you can
choose what NEWTs you want to do next year."
"D’you know what you want to do after Hogwarts?" Harry asked the other two, as they left the
Great Hall shortly afterwards and set off towards their History of Magic classroom.
"Not really," said Ron slowly. "Except... well..."
He looked slightly sheepish.
"What?" Harry urged him.
‘"Well, it’d e cool to e an Auror,’" said Ron in an off-hand voice.
"Yeah, it would," said Harry fervently.
"But they’re, like, the elite," said Ron. "You’ve got to e really good. What aout you, Hermione?"
"I don’t know," she said. "I think I’d like to do something really worthwhile."
"An Auror’s worthwhile!" said Harry.
"Yes, it is, ut it’s not the only worthwhile thing," said Hermione thoughtfully, "I mean, if I could take SPEW further..."
Harry and Ron carefully avoided looking at each other.
History of Magic was y common consent the most oring suject ever devised y wizardkind.
Professor Binns, their ghost teacher, had a wheezy, droning voice that was almost guaranteed to
cause severe drowsiness within ten minutes, five in warm weather. He never varied the form of
their lessons, ut lectured them without pausing while they took notes, or rather, gazed sleepily
into space. Harry and Ron had so far managed to scrape passes in this suject only y copying
Hermione’s notes efore exams; she alone seemed ale to resist the soporific power of Binns’s
voice.
Today, they suffered an hour and a half’s droning on the suject of giant wars. Harry heard just
enough within the first ten minutes to appreciate dimly that in another teacher’s hands this
suject might have een mildly interesting, ut then his rain disengaged, and he spent the
remaining hour and twenty minutes playing hangman on a corner of his parchment with Ron,
while Hermione shot them filthy looks out of the corner of her eye.
"How would it e," she asked them coldly, as they left the classroom for reak (Binns drifting
away through the lackoard), "if I refused to lend you my notes this year?"
"We’d fail our OWL," said Ron. "If you want that on your conscience, Hermione..."
"Well, you’d deserve it," she snapped. "You don’t even try to listen to him, do you?"
"We do try" said Ron. "We just haven’t got your rains or your memory or your concentration -
you’re just cleverer than we are - is it nice to ru it in?"
"Oh, don’t give me that ruish," said Hermione, ut she looked slightly mollified as she led the
way out into the damp courtyard.
A fine misty drizzle was falling, so that the people standing in huddles around the edges of the
yard looked lurred at the edges. Harry, Ron and Hermione chose a secluded corner under a
heavily dripping alcony, turning up the collars of their roes against the chilly Septemer air
and talking aout what Snape was likely to set them in the first lesson of the year. They had got
as far as agreeing that it was likely to e something extremely difficult, just to catch them off
guard after a two-month holiday, when someone walked around the corner towards them.
"Hello, Harry!"
It was Cho Chang and, what was more, she was on her own again. This was most unusual: Cho
was almost always surrounded y a gang of giggling girls; Harry rememered the agony of
trying to get her y herself to ask her to the Yule Ball.
"Hi," said Harry, feeling his face grow hot. At least you’re not covered in Stinksap this time, he
told himself. Cho seemed to e thinking along the same lines.
"You got that stuff off, then?"
"Yeah," said Harry, trying to grin as though the memory of their last meeting was funny as
opposed to mortifying. "So, did you... er... have a good summer?"
The moment he had said this he wished he hadn’t - Cedric had een Cho’s oyfriend and the
memory of his death must have affected her holiday almost as adly as it had affected Harrys.
Something seemed to tauten in her face, ut she said, "Oh, it was all right, you know..."
"Is that a Tornados adge?" Ron demanded suddenly, pointing to the front of Cho’s roes, where a sky-lue adge emlazoned with a doule gold ‘T’ was pinned. "You don’t support them, do you?"
"Yeah, I do," said Cho.
"Have you always supported them, or just since they started winning the league?" said Ron, in
what Harry considered an unnecessarily accusatory tone of voice.
"I’ve supported them since I was six," said Cho coolly. "Anyway... see you, Harry."
She walked away. Hermione waited until Cho was halfway across the courtyard efore rounding
on Ron.
"You are so tactless!"
"What? I only asked her if -"
"Couldn’t you tell she wanted to talk to Harry on her own?"
"So? She could’ve done, I wasn’t stopping -"
"Why on earth were you attacking her aout her Quidditch team?"
"Attacking? I wasn’t attacking her, I was only -"
"Who cares if she supports the Tornados?"
"Oh, come on, half the people you see wearing those adges only ought them last season -"
"But what does it matter!"
"It means they’re not real fans, they’re just jumping on the andwagon -"
"That’s the ell," said Harry dully, ecause Ron and Hermione were ickering too loudly to hear
it. They did not stop arguing all the way down to Snape’s dungeon, which gave Harry plenty of
time to reflect that etween Neville and Ron he would e lucky ever to have two minutes of
conversation with Cho that he could look ack on without wanting to leave the country.
And yet, he thought, as they joined the queue lining up outside Snape’s classroom door, she had
chosen to come and talk to him, hadn’t she? She had een Cedric’s girlfriend; she could easily
have hated Harry for coming out of the Triwizard maze alive when Cedric had died, yet she was
talking to him in a perfectly friendly way, not as though she thought him mad, or a liar, or in
some horrile way responsile for Cedric’s death... yes, she had definitely chosen to come and
talk to him, and that made the second time in two days... and at this thought, Harry’s spirits rose.
Even the ominous sound of Snape’s dungeon door creaking open did not puncture the small,
hopeful ule that seemed to have swelled in his chest. He filed into the classroom ehind Ron
and Hermione and followed them to their usual tale at the ack, where he sat down etween
Ron and Hermione and ignored the huffy, irritale noises now issuing from oth of them.
"Settle down," said Snape coldly, shutting the door ehind him.
There was no real need for the call to order; the moment the class had heard the door close, quiet
had fallen and all fidgeting stopped. Snape’s mere presence was usually enough to ensure a
class’s silence.
"Before we egin today’s lesson," said Snape, sweeping over to his desk and staring around at
them all, "I think it appropriate to remind you that next June you will e sitting an important
examination, during which you will prove how much you have learned aout the composition
and use of magical potions. Moronic though some of this class undoutedly are, I expect you to
scrape an ‘Acceptale’ in your OWL, or suffer my... displeasure."
His gaze lingered this time on Neville, who gulped.
"After this year, of course, many of you will cease studying with me," Snape went on. "I take only the very est into my NEWT Potions class, which means that some of us will certainly e saying goodye."
His eyes rested on Harry and his lip curled. Harry glared ack, feeling a grim pleasure at the idea
that he would e ale to give up Potions after fifth year.
"But we have another year to go efore that happy moment of farewell," said Snape softly, "so,
whether or not you are intending to attempt NEWT, I advise all of you to concentrate your
efforts upon maintaining the high pass level I have come to expect from my OWL students.
"Today we will e mixing a potion that often comes up at Ordinary Wizarding Level: the
Draught of Peace, a potion to calm anxiety and soothe agitation. Be warned: if you are too
heavy-handed with the ingredients you will put the drinker into a heavy and sometimes
irreversile sleep, so you will need to pay close attention to what you are doing." On Harry’s left,
Hermione sat up a little straighter, her expression one of utmost attention. "The ingredients and
method -" Snape flicked his wand "- are on the lackoard -" (they appeared there) "- you will find everything you need --" he flicked his wand again "- in the store cupoard --" (the door of the said cupoard sprang open) "- you have an hour and a half... start."
Just as Harry, Ron and Hermione had predicted, Snape could hardly have set them a more
difficult, fiddly potion. The ingredients had to e added to the cauldron in precisely the right
order and quantities; the mixture had to e stirred exactly the right numer of times, firstly in
clockwise, then in anti-clockwise directions; the heat of the flames on which it was simmering
had to e lowered to exactly the right level for a specific numer of minutes efore the final
ingredient was added.
"A light silver vapour should now e rising from your potion," called Snape, with ten minutes left to go.
Harry, who was sweating profusely, looked desperately around the dungeon. His own cauldron
was issuing copious amounts of dark grey steam; Ron’s was spitting green sparks. Seamus was
feverishly prodding the flames at the ase of his cauldron with the tip of his wand, as they
seemed to e going out. The surface of Hermione’s potion, however, was a shimmering mist of
silver vapour, and as Snape swept y he looked down his hooked nose at it without comment,
which meant he could find nothing to criticize.
At Harry’s cauldron, however, Snape stopped, and looked down at it with a horrile smirk on his
face.
"Potter, what is this supposed to e?"
The Slytherins at the front of the class all looked up eagerly; they loved hearing Snape taunt
Harry.
"The Draught of Peace," said Harry tensely.
"Tell me, Potter," said Snape softly, "can you read?"
Draco Malfoy laughed.
"Yes, I can," said Harry, his fingers clenched tightly around his wand.
"Read the third line of the instructions for me, Potter."
Harry squinted at the lackoard; it was not easy to make out the instructions through the haze of
multi-colored steam now filling the dungeon.
"‘Add powdered moonstone, stir three times counter-clockwise, allow to simmer for seven
minutes then add two drops of syrup of helleore.’"
His heart sank. He had not added syrup of helleore, ut had proceeded straight to the fourth line
of the instructions after allowing his potion to simmer for seven minutes.
"Did you do everything on the third line, Potter?"
"No," said Harry very quietly.
"I eg your pardon?"
"No," said Harry, more loudly. "I forgot the helleore."
"I know you did, Potter, which means that this mess is utterly worthless. Evanesco."
The contents of Harry’s potion vanished; he was left standing foolishly eside an empty
cauldron.
"Those of you who have managed to read the instructions, fill one flagon with a sample of your
potion, lael it clearly with your name and ring it up to my desk for testing," said Snape.
"Homework: twelve inches of parchment on the properties of moonstone and its uses in potion making, to e handed in on Thursday."
While everyone around him filled their flagons, Harry cleared away his things, seething. His
potion had een no worse than Ron’s, which was now giving off a foul odour of ad eggs; or
Neville’s, which had achieved the consistency of just-mixed cement and which Neville was now
having to gouge out of his cauldron; yet it was he, Harry, who would e receiving zero marks for
the day’s work. He stuffed his wand ack into his ag and slumped down on to his seat, watching
everyone else march up to Snape’s desk with filled and corked flagons. When at long last the ell
rang, Harry was first out of the dungeon and had already started his lunch y the time Ron and
Hermione joined him in the Great Hall. The ceiling had turned an even murkier grey during the
morning. Rain was lashing the high windows.
"That was really unfair," said Hermione consolingly, sitting down next to Harry and helping
herself to shepherd’s pie. "Your potion wasn’t nearly as ad as Goyle’s; when he put it in his
flagon the whole thing shattered and set his roes on fire."
"Yeah, well," said Harry, glowering at his plate, "since when has Snape ever een fair to me?"
Neither of the others answered; all three of them knew that Snape and Harry’s mutual enmity had
een asolute from the moment Harry had set foot in Hogwarts.
"I did think he might e a it etter this year," said Hermione in a disappointed voice. "I mean...
you know..." she looked around carefully; there were half a dozen empty seats on either side of
them and noody was passing the tale "... now he’s in the Order and everything."
"Poisonous toadstools don’t change their spots," said Ron sagely. "Anyway I’ve always thought
Dumledore was cracked trusting Snape. Where’s the evidence he ever really stopped working for You-Know-Who?"
"I think Dumledore’s proaly got plenty of evidence, even if he doesn’t share it with you, Ron," snapped Hermione.
"Oh, shut up, the pair of you," said Harry heavily, as Ron opened his mouth to argue ack.
Hermione and Ron oth froze, looking angry and offended. "Can’t you give it a rest?" said Harry. "You’re always having a go at each other, it’s driving me mad." And aandoning his shepherd’s pie, he swung his schoolag ack over his shoulder and left them sitting there.
He walked up the marle staircase two steps at a time, past the many students hurrying towards
lunch. The anger that had just flared so unexpectedly still lazed inside him, and the vision of
Ron and Hermione’s shocked faces afforded him a sense of deep satisfaction. Serve them right,
he thought, why can’t they give it a rest... ickering all the time... it’s enough to drive anyone upthe wall...
He passed the large picture of Sir Cadogan the knight on a landing; Sir Cadogan drew his sword
and randished it fiercely at Harry, who ignored him.
"Come ack, you scurvy dog! Stand fast and fight!" yelled Sir Cadogan in a muffled voice from
ehind his visor, ut Harry merely walked on and when Sir Cadogan attempted to follow him y
running into a neighoring picture, he was reuffed y its inhaitant, a large and angry-looking
wolfhound.
Harry spent the rest of the lunch hour sitting alone underneath the trapdoor at the top of North
Tower. Consequently, he was the first to ascend the silver ladder that led to Siyll Trelawney’s
classroom when the ell rang.
After Potions, Divination was Harrys least favorite class, which was due mainly to Professor
Trelawney’s hait of predicting his premature death every few lessons. A thin woman, heavily
draped in shawls and glittering with strings of eads, she always reminded Harry of some kind of
insect, with her glasses hugely magnifying her eyes. She was usy putting copies of attered
leather-ound ooks on each of the spindly little tales with which her room was littered when
Harry entered the room, ut the light cast y the lamps covered y scarves and the low-urning,
sickly-scented fire was so dim she appeared not to notice him as he took a seat in the shadows.
The rest of the class arrived over the next five minutes. Ron emerged from the trapdoor, looked
around carefully, spotted Harry and made directly for him, or as directly as he could while
having to wend his way etween tales, chairs and overstuffed pouffes.
"Hermione and me have stopped arguing," he said, sitting down eside Harry.
"Good," grunted Harry.
"But Hermione says she thinks it would e nice if you stopped taking out your temper on us," said Ron.
"I’m not -"
"I’m just passing on the message," said Ron, talking over him. "But I reckon she’s right. It’s not our fault how Seamus and Snape treat you."
"I never said it -"
"Good-day," said Professor Trelawney in her usual misty, dreamy voice, and Harry roke off,
again feeling oth annoyed and slightly ashamed of himself. "And welcome ack to Divination. I
have, of course, een following your fortunes most carefully over the holidays, and am delighted
to see that you have all returned to Hogwarts safely - as, of course, I knew you would.
"You will find on the tales efore you copies of The Dream Oracle, y Inigo Imago. Dream
interpretation is a most important means of divining the future and one that may very proaly
e tested in your OWL. Not, of course, that I elieve examination passes or failures are of the
remotest importance when it comes to the sacred art of divination. If you have the Seeing Eye,
certificates and grades matter very little. However, the Headmaster likes you to sit the
examination, so..."
Her voice trailed away delicately, leaving them all in no dout that Professor Trelawney
considered her suject aove such sordid matters as examinations.
"Turn, please, to the introduction and read what Imago has to say on the matter of dream
interpretation. Then, divide into pairs. Use The Dream Oracle to interpret each others most recent dreams. Carry on."
The one good thing to e said for this lesson was that it was not a doule period. By the time
they had all finished reading the introduction of the ook, they had arely ten minutes left for
dream interpretation. At the tale next to Harry and Ron, Dean had paired up with Neville, who
immediately emarked on a long-winded explanation of a nightmare involving a pair of giant
scissors wearing his grandmother’s est hat; Harry and Ron merely looked at each other glumly.
"I never rememer my dreams," said Ron, "you say one."
"You must rememer one of them," said Harry impatiently.
He was not going to share his dreams with anyone. He knew perfectly well what his regular
nightmare aout a graveyard meant, he did not need Ron or Professor Trelawney or the
stupid Dream Oracle to tell him.
"Well, I dreamed I was playing Quidditch the other night," said Ron, screwing up his face in an
effort to rememer. "What d’you reckon that means?"
"Proaly that you’re going to e eaten y a giant marshmallow or something," said Harry,
turning the pages of The Dream Oracle without interest. It was very dull work looking up its of
dreams in the Oracle and Harry was not cheered up when Professor Trelawney set them the task
of keeping a dream diary for a month as homework. When the ell went, he and Ron led the way
ack down the ladder, Ron grumling loudly.
"D’you realize how much homework we’ve got already? Binns set us a foot-and-a-half-long essay on giant wars, Snape wants a foot on the use of moonstones, and now we’ve got a month’s dream diary from Trelawney! Fred and George weren’t wrong aout OWL year, were they? That
Umridge woman had etter not give us any..."
When they entered the Defense Against the Dark Arts classroom they found Professor Umridge
already seated at the teacher’s desk, wearing the fluffy pink cardigan of the night efore and the
lack velvet ow on top of her head. Harry was again reminded forcily of a large fly perched
unwisely on top of an even larger toad.
The class was quiet as it entered the room; Professor Umridge was, as yet, an unknown quantity
and noody knew how strict a disciplinarian she was likely to e.
"Well, good afternoon!" she said, when finally the whole class had sat down.
A few people mumled "good afternoon" in reply.
"Tut, tut," said Professor Umridge. "That won’t do, now, will it? I should like you, please, to reply ‘Good afternoon, Professor Umridge’. One more time, please. Good afternoon, class!"
"Good afternoon, Professor Umridge," they chanted ack at her.
"There, now," said Professor Umridge sweetly. "That wasn’t too difficult, was it? Wands away
and quills out, please."
Many of the class exchanged gloomy looks; the order "wands away" had never yet een followed y a lesson they had found interesting. Harry shoved his wand ack inside his ag and pulled out quill, ink and parchment. Professor Umridge opened her handag, extracted her own wand, which was an unusually short one, and tapped the lackoard sharply with it; words appeared on the oard at once:
Defense Against the Dark Arts A Return to Basic Principles
"Well now, your teaching in this suject has een rather disrupted and fragmented, hasn’t it?"
stated Professor Umridge, turning to face the class with her hands clasped neatly in front of her.
"The constant changing of teachers, many of whom do not seem to have followed any Ministry approved curriculum, has unfortunately resulted in your eing far elow the standard we would
expect to see in your OWL year.
"You will e pleased to know, however, that these prolems are now to e rectified. We will e
following a carefully structured, theory-centerd, Ministry-approved course of defensive magic
this year. Copy down the following, please."
She rapped the lackoard again; the first message vanished and was replaced y: Course
Aims:
1. Understanding the principles underlying defensive magic.
2. Learning to recognize situations in which defensive magic can legally e used.
3. Placing the use of defensive magic in a context for practical use.
For a couple of minutes the room was full of the sound of scratching quills on parchment. When
everyone had copied down Professor Umridge’s three course aims she asked, "Has everyody
got a copy of Defensive Magical Theory y Wilert Slinkhard?"
There was a dull murmur of assent throughout the class.
"I think we’ll try that again," said Professor Umridge. "When I ask you a question, I should like
you to reply, ‘Yes, Professor Umridge’, or ‘No, Professor Umridge’. So: has everyone got a
copy of Defensive Magical Theory y Wilert Slinkhard?"
"Yes, Professor Umridge," rang through the room.
"Good," said Professor Umridge. "I should like you to turn to page five and read ‘Chapter One,
Basics for Beginners’. There will e no need to talk."
Professor Umridge left the lackoard and settled herself in the chair ehind the teacher’s desk,
oserving them all closely with those pouchy toad’s eyes. Harry turned to page five of his copy
of Defensive Magical Theory and started to read.
It was desperately dull, quite as ad as listening to Professor Binns. He felt his concentration
sliding away from him; he had soon read the same line half a dozen times without taking in more
than the first few words. Several silent minutes passed. Next to him, Ron was asent-mindedly
turning his quill over and over in his fingers, staring at the same spot on the page. Harry looked
right and received a surprise to shake him out of his torpor. Hermione had not even opened her
copy of Defensive Magical Theory. She was staring fixedly at Professor Umridge with her hand
in the air.
Harry could not rememer Hermione ever neglecting to read when instructed to, or indeed
resisting the temptation to open any ook that came under her nose. He looked at her
enquiringly, ut she merely shook her head slightly to indicate that she was not aout to answer
questions, and continued to stare at Professor Umridge, who was looking just as resolutely in
another direction.
After several more minutes had passed, however, Harry was not the only one watching
Hermione. The chapter they had een instructed to read was so tedious that more and more
people were choosing to watch Hermione’s mute attempt to catch Professor Umridge’s eye
rather than struggle on with ‘Basics for Beginners’.
When more than half the class were staring at Hermione rather than at their ooks, Professor
Umridge seemed to decide that she could ignore the situation no longer.
"Did you want to ask something aout the chapter, dear?" she asked Hermione, as though she had only just noticed her.
"Not aout the chapter, no," said Hermione.
"Well, we’re reading just now," said Professor Umridge, showing her small pointed teeth. "If you have other queries we can deal with them at the end of class."
"I’ve got a query aout your course aims," said Hermione.
Professor Umridge raised her eyerows.
"And your name is?"
"Hermione Granger," said Hermione.
"Well, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are perfectly clear if you read them through
carefully" said Professor Umridge in a voice of determined sweetness.
"Well, I don’t," said Hermione luntly. "There’s nothing written up there aout using defensive
spells."
There was a short silence in which many memers of the class turned their heads to frown at the
three course aims still written on the lackoard.
"Using defensive spells?" Professor Umridge repeated with a little laugh. "Why, I can’t imagine any situation arising in my classroom that would require you to use a defensive spell, Miss Granger. You surely aren’t expecting to e attacked during class?"
"We’re not going to use magic?" Ron exclaimed loudly.
"Students raise their hands when they wish to speak in my class, Mr. -?"
"Weasley," said Ron, thrusting his hand into the air.
Professor Umridge, smiling still more widely, turned her ack on him. Harry and Hermione
immediately raised their hands too. Professor Umridge’s pouchy eyes lingered on Harry for a
moment efore she addressed Hermione.
"Yes, Miss Granger? You wanted to ask something else?"
"Yes," said Hermione. "Surely the whole point of Defence Against the Dark Arts is to practice
defensive spells?"
"Are you a Ministry-trained educational expert, Miss Granger?" asked Professor Umridge, in her falsely sweet voice.
"No, ut -"
"Well then, I’m afraid you are not qualified to decide what the ‘whole point’ of any class is.
Wizards much older and cleverer than you have devised our new program of study. You will
e learning aout defensive spells in a secure, risk-free way -"
"What use is that?" said Harry loudly. "If we’re going to e attacked, it won’t e in a -"
"Hand, Mr. Potter!" sang Professor Umridge.
Harry thrust his fist in the air. Again, Professor Umridge promptly turned away from him, ut
now several other people had their hands up, too.
"And your name is?" Professor Umridge said to Dean.
"Dean Thomas."
"Well, Mr. Thomas?"
"Well, it’s like Harry said, isn’t it?" said Dean. "If we’re going to e attacked, it won’t e risk free."
"I repeat," said Professor Umridge, smiling in a very irritating fashion at Dean, "do you expect to e attacked during my classes?"
"No, ut -"
Professor Umridge talked over him. "I do not wish to criticize the way things have een run in
this school," she said, an unconvincing smile stretching her wide mouth, "ut you have een
exposed to some very irresponsile wizards in this class, very irresponsile indeed - not to
mention," she gave a nasty little laugh, "extremely dangerous half-reeds."
"If you mean Professor Lupin," piped up Dean angrily, "he was the est we ever -"
"Hand, Mr. Thomas! As I was saying - you have een introduced to spells that have een
complex, inappropriate to your age group and potentially lethal. You have een frightened into
elieving that you are likely to meet Dark attacks every other day -"
"No we haven’t," Hermione said, "we just -"
"Your hand is not up, Miss Granger!"
Hermione put up her hand. Professor Umridge turned away from her.
"It is my understanding that my predecessor not only performed illegal curses in front of you, he
actually performed them on you."
"Well, he turned out to e a maniac, didn’t he?" said Dean hotly. "Mind you, we still learned
loads."
"Your hand is not up, Mr. Thomas!" trilled Professor Umridge. "Now, it is the view of the
Ministry that a theoretical knowledge will e more than sufficient to get you through your
examination, which, after all, is what school is all aout. And your name is?" she added, staring
at Parvati, whose hand had just shot up.
"Parvati Patil, and isn’t there a practical it in our Defense Against the Dark Arts OWL? Aren’t
we supposed to show that we can actually do the counter-curses and things?"
"As long as you have studied the theory hard enough, there is no reason why you should not e
ale to perform the spells under carefully controlled examination conditions," said Professor
Umridge dismissively.
"Without ever practicing them eforehand?" said Parvati incredulously. "Are you telling us that the first time we’ll get to do the spells will e during our exam?"
"I repeat, as long as you have studied the theory hard enough -"
"And what good’s theory going to e in the real world?" said Harry loudly, his fist in the air again.
Professor Umridge looked up.
"This is school, Mr. Potter, not the real world," she said softly.
"So we’re not supposed to e prepared for what’s waiting for us out there?"
"There is nothing waiting out there, Mr. Potter."
"Oh, yeah?" said Harry. His temper, which seemed to have een uling just eneath the surface all day, was reaching oiling point.
"Who do you imagine wants to attack children like yourselves?" enquired Professor Umridge in
a horrily honeyed voice.
"Hmm, let’s think..." said Harry in a mock thoughtful voice. "Maye... Lord Voldemort!"
Ron gasped; Lavender Brown uttered a little scream; Neville slipped sideways off his stool.
Professor Umridge, however, did not flinch. She was staring at Harry with a grimly satisfied
expression on her face.
"Ten points from Gryffindor, Mr. Potter."
The classroom was silent and still. Everyone was staring at either Umridge or Harry.
"Now, let me make a few things quite plain."
Professor Umridge stood up and leaned towards them, her stuy-fingered hands splayed on her
desk.
"You have een told that a certain Dark wizard has returned from the dead -"
"He wasn’t dead," said Harry angrily, "ut yeah, he’s returned!"
‘"Mr-Potter-you-have-already-lost-your-house-ten-points-do-not-make-matters-worse-for yourself," said Professor Umridge in one reath without looking at him. "As I was saying, you have een informed that a certain Dark wizard is at large once again. This is a lie."
"It is NOT a lie!" said Harry. "I saw him, I fought him!"
"Detention, Mr. Potter!" said Professor Umridge triumphantly. "Tomorrow evening. Five
o’clock. My office. I repeat, this is a lie. The Ministry of Magic guarantees that you are not in
danger from any Dark wizard. If you are still worried, y all means come and see me outside
class hours. If someone is alarming you with fis aout reorn Dark wizards, I would like to hear
aout it. I am here to help. I am your friend. And now, you will kindly continue your reading.
Page five, ‘Basics for Beginners’."
Professor Umridge sat down ehind her desk. Harry, however, stood up. Everyone was staring
at him; Seamus looked half-scared, half-fascinated.
"Harry, no!" Hermione whispered in a warning voice, tugging at his sleeve, ut Harry jerked his
arm out of her reach.
"So, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead of his own accord, did he?" Harry asked, his voice shaking.
There was a collective intake of reath from the class, for none of them, apart from Ron and
Hermione, had ever heard Harry talk aout what had happened on the night Cedric had died.
They stared avidly from Harry to Professor Umridge, who had raised her eyes and was staring
at him without a trace of a fake smile on her face.
"Cedric Diggory’s death was a tragic accident," she said coldly.
"It was murder," said Harry. He could feel himself shaking. He had hardly spoken to anyone aout this, least of all thirty eagerly listening classmates. "Voldemort killed him and you know it."
Professor Umridge’s face was quite lank. For a moment, Harry thought she was going to
scream at him. Then she said, in her softest, most sweetly girlish voice, "Come here, Mr. Potter,
dear."
He kicked his chair aside, strode around Ron and Hermione and up to the teacher’s desk. He
could feel the rest of the class holding its reath. He felt so angry he did not care what happened
next.
Professor Umridge pulled a small roll of pink parchment out of her handag, stretched it out on
the desk, dipped her quill into a ottle of ink and started scriling, hunched over so that Harry
could not see what she was writing. Noody spoke. After a minute or so she rolled up the
parchment and tapped it with her wand; it sealed itself seamlessly so that he could not open it.
"Take this to Professor McGonagall, dear," said Professor Umridge, holding out the note to him.
He took it from her without saying a word, turned on his heel and left the room, not even looking
ack at Ron and Hermione, slamming the classroom door shut ehind him. He walked very fast
along the corridor, the note to McGonagall clutched tight in his hand, and turning a corner
walked slap into Peeves the poltergeist, a wide-mouthed little man floating on his ack in midair,
juggling several inkwells.
"Why it’s Potty Wee Potter!" cackled Peeves, allowing two of the inkwells to fall to the ground
where they smashed and spattered the walls with ink; Harry jumped ackwards out of the way
with a snarl.
"Get out of it, Peeves."
"Oooh, Crackpot’s feeling cranky" said Peeves, pursuing Harry along the corridor, leering as he
zoomed along aove him. "What is it this time, my fine Potty friend? Hearing voices? Seeing
visions? Speaking in -" Peeves lew a gigantic rasperry "-- tongues?"
"I said, leave me ALONE!" Harry shouted, running down the nearest flight of stairs, ut Peeves
merely slid down the anister on his ack eside him.
"Oh, most think he’s arking, the potty wee lad, But some are more kindly and think he’s just sad, ut Peevesy knows etter and says that he’s mad -- "
"SHUT UP!"
A door to his left flew open and Professor McGonagall emerged from her office looking grim
and slightly harassed.
"What on earth are you shouting aout, Potter?" she snapped, as Peeves cackled gleefully and
zoomed out of sight. ‘"Why aren’t you in class?"
"I’ve een sent to see you," said Harry stiffly.
"Sent? What do you mean, sent?"
He held out the note from Professor Umridge. Professor McGonagall took it from him,
frowning, slit it open with a tap of her wand, stretched it out and egan to read. Her eyes zoomed
from side to side ehind their square spectacles as she read what Umridge had written, and with
each line they ecame narrower.
"Come in here, Potter."
He followed her inside her study. The door closed automatically ehind him.
"Well?" said Professor McGonagall, rounding on him. "Is this true?"
"Is what true?" Harry asked, rather more aggressively than he had intended. "Professor?" he added, in an attempt to sound more polite.
"Is it true that you shouted at Professor Umridge?"
"Yes," said Harry.
"You called her a liar?"
"Yes."
"You told her He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is ack?"
"Yes."
Professor McGonagall sat down ehind her desk, watching Harry closely. Then she said, "Have a iscuit, Potter."
"Have - what?"
"Have a iscuit," she repeated impatiently, indicating a tartan tin of cookies lying on top of one of the piles of papers on her desk. "And sit down."
There had een a previous occasion when Harry, expecting to e caned y Professor
McGonagall, had instead een appointed y her to the Gryffindor Quidditch team. He sank into a
chair opposite her and helped himself to a Ginger Newt, feeling just as confused and wrong footed as he had done on that occasion.
Professor McGonagall set down Professor Umridge’s note and looked very seriously at Harry.
"Potter, you need to e careful."
Harry swallowed his mouthful of Ginger Newt and stared at her. Her tone of voice was not at all
what he was used to; it was not risk, crisp and stern; it was low and anxious and somehow much
more human than usual.
"Misehavior in Dolores Umridge’s class could cost you much more than house points and a
detention."
"What do you -?"
"Potter, use your common sense," snapped Professor McGonagall, with an arupt return to her
usual manner. "You know where she comes from, you must know to whom she is reporting."
The ell rang for the end of the lesson. Overhead and all around came the elephantine sounds of
hundreds of students on the move.
"It says here she’s given you detention every evening this week, starting tomorrow," Professor
McGonagall said, looking down at Umridge’s note again.
"Every evening this week!" Harry repeated, horrified. "But, Professor, couldn’t you -?"
"No, I couldn’t," said Professor McGonagall flatly.
"But -"
"She is your teacher and has every right to give you detention. You will go to her room at five
o’clock tomorrow for the first one. Just rememer: tread carefully around Dolores Umridge."
"But I was telling the truth!" said Harry, outraged. "Voldemort is ack, you know he is; Professor Dumledore knows he is -"
"For heaven’s sake, Potter!" said Professor McGonagall, straightening her glasses angrily (she had winced horrily when he had used Voldemort’s name). "Do you really think this is aout truth or lies? It’s aout keeping your head down and your temper under control!"
She stood up, nostrils wide and mouth very thin, and Harry stood up, too.
"Have another iscuit," she said irritaly, thrusting the tin at him.
"No, thanks," said Harry coldly.
"Don’t e ridiculous," she snapped.
He took one.
"Thanks," he said grudgingly.
"Didn’t you listen to Dolores Umridge’s speech at the start-of-term feast, Potter?"
"Yeah," said Harry. "Yeah... she said... progress will e prohiited or... well, it meant that... that the Ministry of Magic is trying to interfere at Hogwarts."
Professor McGonagall eyed him closely for a moment, then sniffed, walked around her desk and
held open the door for him.
"Well, I’m glad you listen to Hermione Granger at any rate," she said, pointing him out of her
office.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Detention with Dolores
Dinner in the Great Hall that night was not a pleasant experience for Harry. The news aout his
shouting match with Umridge had traveled exceptionally fast even y Hogwarts’ standards. He
heard whispers all around him as he sat eating etween Ron and Hermione. The funny thing was
that none of the whisperers seemed to mind him overhearing what they were saying aout him.
On the contrary, it was as though they were hoping he would get angry and start shouting again,
so that they could hear his story first-hand.
"He says he saw Cedric Diggory murdered..."
"He reckons he dueled with You-Know-Who..."
"Come off it..."
"Who does he think he’s kidding?"
"Pur-Lease..."
"What I don’t get," said Harry through clenched teeth, laying down his knife and fork (his hands
were shaking too much to hold them steady), "is why they all elieved the story two months ago
when Dumledore told them..."
"The thing is, Harry, I’m not sure they did," said Hermione grimly. "Oh, let’s get out of here."
She slammed down her own knife and fork; Ron looked longingly at his half-finished apple pie
ut followed suit. People stared at them all the way out of the Hall.
"What d’you mean, you’re not sure they elieved Dumledore?" Harry asked Hermione when
they reached the first-floor landing.
"Look, you don’t understand what it was like after it happened," said Hermione quietly. "You
arrived ack in the middle of the lawn clutching Cedric’s dead ody... none of us saw what
happened in the maze... we just had Dumledore’s word for it that You-Know-Who had come
ack and killed Cedric and fought you."
"Which is the truth!" said Harry loudly.
"I know it is, Harry, so will you please stop iting my head off?" said Hermione wearily. "It’s just that efore the truth could sink in, everyone went home for the summer, where they spent two months reading aout how you’re a nutcase and Dumledore’s going senile!"
Rain pounded on the windowpanes as they strode along the empty corridors ack to Gryffindor
Tower. Harry felt as though his first day had lasted a week, ut he still had a mountain of
homework to do efore ed. A dull pounding pain was developing over his right eye. He glanced
out of a rain-washed window at the dark grounds as they turned into the Fat Lady’s corridor.
There was still no light in Hagrid’s cain.
"Mimulus mimletonia," said Hermione, efore the Fat Lady could ask. The portrait swung
open to reveal the hole ehind it and the three of them scramled through it.
The common room was almost empty; nearly everyone was still down at dinner. Crookshanks
uncoiled himself from an armchair and trotted to meet them, purring loudly, and when Harry,
Ron and Hermione took their three favorite chairs at the fireside he leapt lightly on to
Hermione’s lap and curled up there like a furry ginger cushion. Harry gazed into the flames,
feeling drained and exhausted.
"How can Dumledore have let this happen?" Hermione cried suddenly, making Harry and Ron
jump; Crookshanks leapt off her, looking affronted. She pounded the arms of her chair in fury, so
that its of stuffing leaked out of the holes. "How can he let that terrile woman teach us? And in
our OWL year, too!"
"Well, we’ve never had great Defense Against the Dark Arts teachers, have we?" said Harry.
"You know what it’s like, Hagrid told us, noody wants the jo; they say it’s jinxed."
"Yes, ut to employ someone who’s actually refusing to let us do magic! What’s Dumledore
playing at?"
"And she’s trying to get people to spy for her," said Ron darkly. "Rememer when she said she wanted us to come and tell her if we hear anyone saying You-Know-Who’s ack?"
"Of course she’s here to spy on us all, that’s ovious, why else would Fudge have wanted her to
come?" snapped Hermione.
"Don’t start arguing again," said Harry wearily, as Ron opened his mouth to retaliate. "Can’t we
just... let’s just do that homework, get it out of the way..."
They collected their schoolags from a corner and returned to the chairs y the fire. People were
coming ack from dinner now. Harry kept his face averted from the portrait hole, ut could still
sense the stares he was attracting.
"Shall we do Snape’s stuff first?" said Ron, dipping his quill into his ink. "The properties... of
moonstone... and its uses... in potion-making..." he muttered, writing the words across the top
of his parchment as he spoke them. "There." He underlined the title, then looked up expectantly
at Hermione.
"So, what are the properties of moonstone and its uses in potion-making?"
But Hermione was not listening; she was squinting over into the far corner of the room, where
Fred, George and Lee Jordan were now sitting at the center of a knot of innocent-looking first years, all of whom were chewing something that seemed to have come out of a large paper ag
that Fred was holding.
"No, I’m sorry, they’ve gone too far," she said, standing up and looking positively furious.
"Come on, Ron."
"I - what?" said Ron, plainly playing for time. "No- come on, Hermione - we can’t tell them off
for giving out sweets."
"You know perfectly well that those are its of Noseleed Nougat or - or Puking Pastilles or -"
"Fainting Fancies?" Harry suggested quietly.
One y one, as though hit over the head with an invisile mallet, the first-years were slumping
unconscious in their seats; some slid right on to the floor, others merely hung over the arms of
their chairs, their tongues lolling out. Most of the people watching were laughing; Hermione,
however, squared her shoulders and marched directly over to where Fred and George now stood
with clipoards, closely oserving the unconscious first-years. Ron rose halfway out of his chair,
hovered uncertainly for a moment or two, then muttered to Harry, "She’s got it under control,"
efore sinking as low in his chair as his lanky frame permitted.
"That’s enough!" Hermione said forcefully to Fred and George, oth of whom looked up in mild
surprise.
"Yeah, you’re right," said George, nodding, "this dosage looks strong enough, doesn’t it?"
"I told you this morning, you can’t test your ruish on students!"
"We’re paying them!" said Fred indignantly.
"I don’t care, it could e dangerous!"
"Ruish," said Fred.
"Calm down, Hermione, they’re fine!" said Lee reassuringly as he walked from first-year to first year, inserting purple sweets into their open mouths.
"Yeah, look, they’re coming round now," said George.
A few of the first-years were indeed stirring. Several looked so shocked to find themselves lying
on the floor, or dangling off their chairs, that Harry was sure Fred and George had not warned
them what the sweets were going to do.
"Feel all right?" said George kindly to a small dark-haired girl lying at his feet.
"I - I think so," she said shakily.
"Excellent," said Fred happily, ut the next second Hermione had snatched oth his clipoard and the paper ag of Fainting Fancies from his hands.
"It is NOT excellent!"
"Course it is, they’re alive, aren’t they?" said Fred angrily.
"You can’t do this, what if you made one of them really ill?"
"We’re not going to make them ill, we’ve already tested them all on ourselves, this is just to see
if everyone reacts the same -"
"If you don’t stop doing it, I’m going to -"
"Put us in detention?" said Fred, in an I’d-like-to-see-you-try-it voice.
"Make us write lines?" said George, smirking.
Onlookers all over the room were laughing. Hermione drew herself up to her full height; her eyes were narrowed and her ushy hair seemed to crackle with electricity.
"No," she said, her voice quivering with anger, "ut I will write to your mother."
"You wouldn’t," said George, horrified, taking a step ack from her.
"Oh, yes, I would," said Hermione grimly. "I can’t stop you eating the stupid things yourselves,
ut you’re not to give them to the first-years."
Fred and George looked thunderstruck. It was clear that as far as they were concerned,
Hermione’s threat was way elow the elt. With a last threatening look at them, she thrust Fred’s
clipoard and the ag of Fancies ack into his arms, and stalked ack to her chair y the fire. Ron was now so low in his seat that his nose was roughly level with his knees.
"Thank you for your support, Ron," Hermione said acidly.
"You handled it fine y yourself," Ron mumled.
Hermione stared down at her lank piece of parchment for a few seconds, then said edgily, "Oh,
it’s no good, I can’t concentrate now. I’m going to ed."
She wrenched her ag open; Harry thought she was aout to put her ooks away, ut instead she
pulled out two misshapen woolly ojects, placed them carefully on a tale y the fireplace,
covered them with a few screwed-up its of parchment and a roken quill and stood ack to
admire the effect.
"What in the name of Merlin are you doing?" said Ron, watching her as though fearful for her
sanity.
"They’re hats for house-elves," she said riskly, now stuffing her ooks ack into her ag. "I did
them over the summer. I’m a really slow knitter without magic ut now I’m ack at school I
should e ale to make lots more."
"You’re leaving out hats for the house-elves?" said Ron slowly. "And you’re covering them up
with ruish first?"
"Yes," said Hermione defiantly, swinging her ag on to her ack.
"That’s not on," said Ron angrily. "You’re trying to trick them into picking up the hats. You’re
setting them free when they might not want to e free."
"Of course they want to e free!" said Hermione at once, though her face was turning pink.
"Don’t you dare touch those hats, Ron!"
She turned on her heel and left. Ron waited until she had disappeared through the door to the
girls’ dormitories, then cleared the ruish off the woolly hats.
"They should at least see what they’re picking up," he said firmly. "Anyway..." he rolled up the
parchment on which he had written the title of Snape’s essay, "there’s no point trying to finish
this now, I can’t do it without Hermione, I haven’t got a clue what you’re supposed to do with
moonstones, have you?"
Harry shook his head, noticing as he did so that the ache in his right temple was getting worse.
He thought of the long essay on giant wars and the pain staed at him sharply. Knowing
perfectly well that when the morning came, he would regret not finishing his homework that
night, he piled his ooks ack into his ag.
"I’m going to ed too."
He passed Seamus on the way to the door leading to the dormitories, ut did not look at him.
Harry had a fleeting impression that Seamus had opened his mouth to speak, ut he sped up and
reached the soothing peace of the stone spiral staircase without having to endure any more
provocation.
The following day dawned just as leaden and rainy as the previous one. Hagrid was still asent
from the staff tale at reakfast.
"But on the plus side, no Snape today" said Ron racingly.
Hermione yawned widely and poured herself some coffee. She looked mildly pleased aout
something, and when Ron asked her what she had to e so happy aout, she simply said, "The
hats have gone. Seems the house-elves do want freedom after all."
"I wouldn’t et on it," Ron told her cuttingly. "They might not count as clothes. They didn’t look anything like hats to me, more like woolly ladders."
Hermione did not speak to him all morning.
Doule Charms was succeeded y doule Transfiguration. Professor Flitwick and Professor
McGonagall oth spent the first fifteen minutes of their lessons lecturing the class on the
importance of OWLs.
"What you must rememer," said little Professor Flitwick squeakily perched as ever on a pile of
ooks so that he could see over the top of his desk, "is that these examinations may influence
your futures for many years to come! If you have not already given serious thought to your
careers, now is the time to do so. And in the meantime, I’m afraid, we shall e working harder
than ever to ensure that you all do yourselves justice!"
They then spent over an hour reviewing Summoning Charms, which according to Professor
Flitwick were ound to come up in their OWL, and he rounded off the lesson y setting them
their largest ever amount of Charms homework.
It was the same, if not worse, in Transfiguration.
"You cannot pass an OWL," said Professor McGonagall grimly, "without serious application,
practice and study. I see no reason why everyody in this class should not achieve an OWL in
Transfiguration as long as they put in the work." Neville made a sad little diselieving noise.
"Yes, you too, Longottom," said Professor McGonagall. "There’s nothing wrong with your work except lack of confidence. So... today we are starting Vanishing Spells. These are easier than Conjuring Spells, which you would not usually attempt until NEWT level, ut they are still
among the most difficult magic you will e tested on in your OWL."
She was quite right; Harry found the Vanishing Spells horrily difficult. By the end of a doule
period neither he nor Ron had managed to vanish the snails on which they were practicing,
though Ron said hopefully he thought his looked a it paler. Hermione, on the other hand,
successfully vanished her snail on the third attempt, earning her a ten-point onus for Gryffindor
from Professor McGonagall. She was the only person not given homework; everyody else was
told to practice the spell overnight, ready for a fresh attempt on their snails the following
afternoon.
Now panicking slightly aout the amount of homework they had to do, Harry and Ron spent
their lunch hour in the lirary looking up the uses of moonstones in potion-making. Still angry
aout Ron’s slur on her woolly hats, Hermione did not join them. By the time they reached Care
of Magical Creatures in the afternoon, Harry’s head was aching again.
The day had ecome cool and reezy, and as they walked down the sloping lawn towards
Hagrid’s cain on the edge of the Foridden Forest, they felt the occasional drop of rain on their
faces. Professor Gruly-Plank stood waiting for the class some ten yards from Hagrid’s front
door, a long trestle tale in front of her laden with twigs. As Harry and Ron reached her, a loud
shout of laughter sounded ehind them; turning, they saw Draco Malfoy striding towards them,
surrounded y his usual gang of Slytherin cronies. He had clearly just said something highly
amusing, ecause Crae, Goyle, Pansy Parkinson and the rest continued to snigger heartily as
they gathered around the trestle tale and, judging y the way they all kept looking over at
Harry, he was ale to guess the suject of the joke without too much difficulty.
"Everyone here?" arked Professor Gruly-Plank, once all the Slytherins and Gryffindors had
arrived. "Let’s crack on then. Who can tell me what these things are called?"
She indicated the heap of twigs in front of her. Hermione’s hand shot into the air. Behind her
ack, Malfoy did a uck-toothed imitation of her jumping up and down in eagerness to answer a
question. Pansy Parkinson gave a shriek of laughter that turned almost at once into a scream, as
the twigs on the tale leapt into the air and revealed themselves to e what looked like tiny pixieish creatures made of wood, each with knoly rown arms and legs, two twiglike fingers at the end of each hand and a funny flat, arklike face in which a pair of eetle-rown eyes glittered.
"Oooooh!" said Parvati and Lavender, thoroughly irritating Harry. Anyone would have thought
Hagrid had never shown them impressive creatures; admittedly, the Floerworms had een a it
dull, ut the Salamanders and Hippogriffs had een interesting enough, and the Blast-Ended
Skrewts perhaps too much so.
"Kindly keep your voices down, girls!" said Professor Gruly-Plank sharply, scattering a
handful of what looked like rown rice among the stick-creatures, who immediately fell upon the
food. "So - anyone know the names of these creatures? Miss Granger?"
"Bowtruckles," said Hermione. "They’re tree-guardians, usually live in wand-trees."
"Five points for Gryffindor," said Professor Gruly-Plank. "Yes, these are Bowtruckles, and as
Miss Granger rightly says, they generally live in trees whose wood is of wand quality. Anyody
know what they eat?"
"Woodlice," said Hermione promptly which explained why what Harry had taken to e grains of
rown rice were moving. "But fairy eggs if they can get them."
"Good girl, take another five points. So, whenever you need leaves or wood from a tree in which
a Bowtruckle lodges, it is wise to have a gift of woodlice ready to distract or placate it. They may
not look dangerous, ut if angered they will try to gouge at human eyes with their fingers, which,
as you can see, are very sharp and not at all desirale near the eyealls. So if you’d like to gather
closer, take a few woodlice and a Bowtruckle - I have enough here for one etween three - you
can study them more closely. I want a sketch from each of you with all ody-parts laeled y
the end of the lesson."
The class surged forwards around the trestle tale. Harry delierately circled around the ack so
that he ended up right next to Professor Gruly-Plank.
"Where’s Hagrid?" he asked her, while everyone else was choosing Bowtruckles.
"Never you mind," said Professor Gruly-Plank repressively, which had een her attitude last
time Hagrid had failed to turn up for a class, too. Smirking all over his pointed face, Draco
Malfoy leaned across Harry and seized the largest Bowtruckle.
"Maye," said Malfoy in an undertone, so that only Harry could hear him, "the stupid great oaf’s
got himself adly injured."
"Maye you will if you don’t shut up," said Harry out of the side of his mouth.
"Maye he’s een messing with stuff that’s too ig for him, if you get my drift."
Malfoy walked away, smirking over his shoulder at Harry, who felt suddenly sick. Did Malfoy
know something? His father was a Death Eater after all; what if he had information aout
Hagrid’s fate that had not yet reached the ears of the Order? He hurried ack around the tale to
Ron and Hermione who were squatting on the grass some distance away and attempting to
persuade a Bowtruckle to remain still long enough for them to draw it. Harry pulled out
parchment and quill, crouched down eside the others and related in a whisper what Malfoy had
just said.
"Dumledore would know if some thing had happened to Hagrid," said Hermione at once. "It’s
just playing into Malfoy’s hands to look worried; it tells him we don’t know exactly what’s
going on. We’ve got to ignore him, Harry. Here, hold the Bowtruckle for a moment, just so I can
draw its face..."
"Yes," came Malfoy’s clear drawl from the group nearest them, "Father was talking to the
Minister just a couple of days ago, you know, and it sounds as though the Ministry’s really
determined to crack down on su-standard teaching in this place. So even if that overgrown
moron does show up again, he’ll proaly e sent packing straightaway."
"OUCH!"
Harry had gripped the Bowtruckle so hard that it had almost snapped, and it had just taken a
great retaliatory swipe at his hand with its sharp fingers, leaving two long deep cuts there. Harry
dropped it. Crae and Goyle, who had already een guffawing at the idea of Hagrid eing
sacked, laughed still harder as the Bowtruckle set off at full tilt towards the Forest, a little
moving stick-man soon swallowed up among the tree roots. When the ell echoed distantly over
the grounds, Harry rolled up his lood-stained Bowtruckle picture and marched off to Herology
with his hand wrapped in Hermione’s handkerchief, and Malfoy’s derisive laughter still ringing
in his ears.
"If he calls Hagrid a moron one more time..." said Harry through gritted teeth.
"Harry, don’t go picking a row with Malfoy, don’t forget, he’s a prefect now, he could make life
difficult for you..."
"Wow, I wonder what it’d e like to have a difficult life?" said Harry sarcastically. Ron laughed,
ut Hermione frowned. Together, they traipsed across the vegetale patch. The sky still appeared
unale to make up its mind whether it wanted to rain or not.
"I just wish Hagrid would hurry up and get ack, that’s all," said Harry in a low voice, as they
reached the greenhouses. "And don’t say that Gruly-Plank woman’s a etter teacher!" he added threateningly.
"I wasn’t going to," said Hermione calmly.
"Because she’ll never e as good as Hagrid," said Harry firmly, fully aware that he had just
experienced an exemplary Care of Magical Creatures lesson and was thoroughly annoyed aout
it.
The door of the nearest greenhouse opened and some fourth-years spilled out of it, including
Ginny.
"Hi," she said rightly as she passed. A few seconds later, Luna Lovegood emerged, trailing
ehind the rest of the class, a smudge of earth on her nose, and her hair tied in a knot on the top
of her head. When she saw Harry, her prominent eyes seemed to ulge excitedly and she made a
eeline straight for him. Many of his classmates turned curiously to watch. Luna took a great
reath and then said, without so much as a preliminary hello, "I elieve He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is ack and I elieve you fought him and escaped from him."
"Er - right," said Harry awkwardly. Luna was wearing what looked like a pair of orange radishes
for earrings, a fact that Parvati and Lavender seemed to have noticed, as they were oth giggling
and pointing at her earloes.
"You can laugh," Luna said, her voice rising, apparently under the impression that Parvati and
Lavender were laughing at what she had said rather than what she was wearing, "ut people used
to elieve there were no such things as the Bliering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned
Snorkack!"
"Well, they were right, weren’t they?’ said Hermione impatiently. "There weren’t any such things as the Bliering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned Snorkack."
Luna gave her a withering look and flounced away, radishes swinging madly Parvati and
Lavender were not the only ones hooting with laughter now.
"D’you mind not offending the only people who elieve me?" Harry asked Hermione as they
made their way into class.
"Oh, for heaven’s sake, Harry, you can do etter than her," said Hermione. "Ginny’s told me all
aout her; apparently, she’ll only elieve in things as long as there’s no proof at all. Well, I
wouldn’t expect anything else from someone whose father runs The Quiler."
Harry thought of the sinister winged horses he had seen on the night he had arrived and how
Luna had said she could see them too. His spirits sank slightly. Had she een lying? But efore
he could devote much more thought to the matter, Ernie Macmillan had stepped up to him.
"I want you to know, Potter," he said in a loud, carrying voice, "that it’s not only weirdos who
support you. I personally elieve you one hundred percent. My family have always stood firm
ehind Dumledore, and so do I."
"Er - thanks very much, Ernie," said Harry, taken aack ut pleased. Ernie might e pompous on
occasions like this, ut Harry was in a mood to deeply appreciate a vote of confidence from
someody who did not have radishes dangling from their ears. Ernie’s words had certainly wiped
the smile from Lavender Brown’s face and as he turned to talk to Ron and Hermione, Harry
caught Seamus’s expression, which looked oth confused and defiant.
To noody’s surprise, Professor Sprout started their lesson y lecturing them aout the
importance of OWLs. Harry wished all the teachers would stop doing this; he was starting to get
an anxious, twisted feeling in his stomach every time he rememered how much homework he
had to do, a feeling that worsened dramatically when Professor Sprout gave them yet another
essay at the end of class. Tired and smelling strongly of dragon dung, Professor Sprout’s
preferred type of fertilizer, the Gryffindors trooped ack up to the castle an hour and a half later,
none of them talking very much; it had een another long day.
As Harry was starving, and he had his first detention with Umridge at five o’clock, he headed
straight for dinner without dropping off his ag in Gryffindor Tower so that he could olt
something down efore facing whatever she had in store for him. He had arely reached the
entrance of the Great Hall, however, when a loud and angry voice yelled, "Oy, Potter!"
"What now?" he muttered wearily, turning to face Angelina Johnson, who looked as though she
was in a towering temper.
"I’ll tell you what now," she said, marching straight up to him and poking him hard in the chest
with her finger. "How come you’ve landed yourself in detention for five o’clock on Friday?"
"What?" said Harry. "Why... oh yeah, Keeper tryouts!"
"Now he rememers!" snarled Angelina. "Didn’t I tell you I wanted to do a tryout with the wholeteam, and find someone who fitted in with everyone! Didn’t I tell you I’d ooked the Quidditch pitch specially? And now you’ve decided you’re not going to e there!"
"I didn’t decide not to e there!" said Harry, stun g y the injustice of these words. "I got
detention from that Umridge woman, just ecause I told her the truth aout You-Know-Who."
"Well, you can just go straight to her and ask her to let you off on Friday," said Angelina fiercely, "and I don’t care how you do it. Tell her You-Know-Who’s a figment of your imagination if you like, just make sure you’re there!"
She turned on her heel and stormed away.
"You know what?" Harry said to Ron and Hermione as they entered the Great Hall. "I think we’d etter check with Puddlemere United whether Oliver Wood’s een killed during a training
session, ecause Angelina seems to e channeling his spirit."
"What d’you reckon are the odds of Umridge letting you off on Friday?" said Ron skeptically,
as they sat down at the Gryffindor tale.
"Less than zero," said Harry glumly, tipping lam c hops on to his plate and starting to eat. "Better try, though, hadn’t I? I’ll offer to do two more detentions or something, I dunno..." He
swallowed a mouthful of potato and added, "I hope she doesn’t keep me too long this evening.
You realize we’ve got to write three essays, practice Vanishing Spells for McGonagall, work out
a counter-charm for Flitwick, finish the Bowtruckle drawing and start that stupid dream diary for
Trelawney?"
Ron moaned and for some reason glanced up at the ceiling.
"And it looks like it’s going to rain."
"What’s that got to do with our homework?" said Hermione, her eyerows raised.
"Nothing," said Ron at once, his ears reddening.
At five to five Harry ade the other two goodye and set off for Umridge’s office on the third
floor. When he knocked on the door she called, "Come in," in a sugary voice. He entered
cautiously, looking around.
He had known this office under three of its previous occupants.
In the days when Gilderoy Lockhart had lived here it had een plastered in eaming portraits of
himself. When Lupin had occupied it, it was likely you would meet some fascinating Dark
creature in a cage or tank if you came to call. In the impostor Moody’s days it had een packed
with various instruments and artifacts for the detection of wrong doing and concealment.
Now, however, it looked totally unrecognizale. The surfaces had all een draped in lacy covers
and cloths. There were several vases full of dried flowers, each one residing on its own doily,
and on one of the walls was a collection of ornamental plates, each decorated with a large
technicolor kitten wearing a different ow around its neck. These were so foul that Harry stared
at them, transfixed, until Professor Umridge spoke again.
"Good evening, Mr. Potter."
Harry started and looked around. He had not noticed her at first ecause she was wearing a
luridly flowered set of roes that lended only too well with the talecloth on the desk ehind
her.
"Evening, Professor Umridge," Harry said stiffly.
"Well, sit down," she said, pointing towards a small tale draped in lace eside which she had
drawn up a straight-acked chair. A piece of lank parchment lay on the tale, apparently
waiting for him.
"Er," said Harry, without moving. "Professor Umridge. Er - efore we start, I - I wanted to ask
you a... a favor."
Her ulging eyes narrowed.
"Oh, yes?"
"Well, I’m... I’m in the Gryffindor Quidditch team. And I was supposed to e at the tryouts for
the new Keeper at five o’clock on Friday and I was - was wondering whether I could skip
detention that night and do it - do it another night... instead..."
He knew long efore he reached the end of his sentence that it was no good.
"Oh, no," said Umridge, smiling so widely that she looked as though she had just swallowed a
particularly juicy fly. "Oh, no, no, no. This is your punishment for spreading evil, nasty,
attention-seeking stories, Mr. Potter, and punishments certainly cannot e adjusted to suit the
guilty one’s convenience. No, you will come here at five o’clock tomorrow, and the next day,
and on Friday too, and you will do your detentions as planned. I think it rather a good thing that
you are missing something you really want to do. It ought to reinforce the lesson I am trying to
teach you."
Harry felt the lood surge to his head and heard a thumping noise in his ears. So he told ‘evil,
nasty, attention-seeking stones’, did he?
She was watching him with her head slightly to one side, still smiling widely, as though she
knew exactly what he was thinking and was waiting to see whether he would start shouting
again. With a massive effort, Harry looked away from her, dropped his schoolag eside the
straight-acked chair and sat down.
"There," said Umridge sweetly, "we’re getting etter at controlling our temper already, aren’t
we? Now, you are going to e doing some lines for me, Mr. Potter. No, not with your quill," she
added, as Harry ent down to open his ag. "You’re going to e using a rather special one of
mine. Here you are."
She handed him a long, thin lack quill with an unusually sharp point.
"I want you to write, I must not tell lies," she told him softly.
"How many times?" Harry asked, with a creditale imitation of politeness.
"Oh, as long as it takes for the message to sink in," said Umridge sweetly. "Off you go."
She moved over to her desk, sat down and ent over a stack of parchment that looked like essays
for marking. Harry raised the sharp lack quill, then realized what was missing.
"You haven’t given me any ink," he said.
"Oh, you won’t need ink," said Professor Umridge, with the merest suggestion of a laugh in her
voice.
Harry placed the point of the quill on the paper and wrote: I must not tell lies.
He let out a gasp of pain. The words had appeared on the parchment in what appeared to e
shining red ink. At the same time, the words had appeared on the ack of Harrys right hand, cut
into his skin as though traced there y a scalpel - yet even as he stared at the shining cut, the skin
healed over again, leaving the place where it had een slightly redder than efore ut quite
smooth.
Harry looked round at Umridge. She was watching him, her wide, toadlike mouth stretched in a
smile.
"Yes?"
"Nothing," said Harry quietly.
He looked ack at the parchment, placed the quill on it once more, wrote I must not tell lies, and
felt the searing pain on the ack of his hand for a second time; once again, the words had een
cut into his skin; once again, they healed over seconds later.
And on it went. Again and again Harry wrote the words on the parchment in what he soon came
to realize was not ink, ut his own lood. And, again and again, the words were cut into the ack
of his hand, healed, and reappeared the next time he set quill to parchment.
Darkness fell outside Umridge’s window. Harry did not ask when he would e allowed to stop.
He did not even check his watch. He knew she was watching him for signs of weakness and he
was not going to show any, not even if he had to sit there all night, cutting open his own hand
with this quill...
"Come here," she said, after what seemed hours.
He stood up. His hand was stinging painfully. When he looked down at it he saw that the cut had
healed, ut that the skin there was red raw.
"Hand," she said.
He extended it. She took it in her own. Harry repressed a shudder as she touched him with her
thick, stuy fingers on which she wore a numer of ugly old rings.
"Tut, tut, I don’t seem to have made much of an impression yet," she said, smiling. "Well, we’ll
just have to try again tomorrow evening, won’t we? You may go."
Harry left her office without a word. The school was quite deserted; it was surely past midnight.
He walked slowly up the corridor, then, when he had turned the corner and was sure she would
not hear him, roke into a run.
He had not had time to practice Vanishing Spells, had not written a single dream in his dream
diary and had not finished the drawing of the Bowtruckle, nor had he written his essays. He
skipped reakfast next morning to scrile down a couple of made-up dreams for Divination,
their first lesson, and was surprised to find a disheveled Ron keeping him company.
"How come you didn’t do it last night?" Harry asked, as Ron stared wildly around the common
room for inspiration. Ron, who had een fast asleep when Harry got ack to the dormitory,
muttered something aout "doing other stuff", ent low over his parchment and scrawled a few
words.
"That’ll have to do," he said, slamming the diary shut. "I’ve said I dreamed I was uying a new
pair of shoes, she can’t make anything weird out of that, can she?"
They hurried off to North Tower together.
"How was detention with Umridge, anyway? What did she make you do?"
Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second, then said, "Lines."
"That’s not too ad, then, eh?" said Ron.
"Nope," said Harry.
"Hey - I forgot - did she let you off for Friday?"
"No," said Harry.
Ron groaned sympathetically.
It was another ad day for Harry; he was one of the worst in Transfiguration, not having
practiced Vanishing Spells at all. He had to give up his lunch hour to complete the picture of the
Bowtruckle and, meanwhile, Professors McGonagall, Gruly-Plank and Sinistra gave them yet
more homework, which he had no prospect of finishing that evening ecause of his second
detention with Umridge. To cap it all, Angelina Johnson tracked him down at dinner again and,
on learning that he would not e ale to attend Friday’s Keeper tryouts, told him she was not at
all impressed y his attitude and that she expected players who wished to remain on the team to
put training efore their other commitments.
"I’m in detention!" Harry yelled after her as she s talked away. "D’you think I’d rather e stuck in a room with that old toad or playing Quidditch?"
"At least it’s only lines," said Hermione consolingly, as Harry sank ack on to his ench and
looked down at his steak and kidney pie, which he no longer fancied very much. "It’s not as if
it’s a dreadful punishment, really..."
Harry opened his mouth, closed it again and nodded. He was not really sure why he was not
telling Ron and Hermione exactly what was happening in Umridge’s room: he only knew that
he did not want to see their looks of horror; that would make the whole thing seem worse and
therefore more difficult to face. He also felt dimly that this was etween himself and Umridge,
a private attle of wills, and he was not going to give her the satisfaction of hearing that he had
complained aout it.
"I can’t elieve how much homework we’ve got," said Ron miseraly.
"Well, why didn’t you do any last night?" Hermione asked him. "Where were you, anyway?"
"I was... I fancied a walk," said Ron shiftily.
Harry had the distinct impression that he was not alone in concealing things at the moment.
The second detention was just as ad as the previous one. The skin on the ack of Harry’s hand
ecame irritated more quickly now and was soon red and inflamed. Harry thought it unlikely that
it would keep healing as effectively for long. Soon the cut would remain etched into his hand and
Umridge would, perhaps, e satisfied. He let no gasp of pain escape him, however, and from
the moment of entering the room to the moment of his dismissal, again past midnight, he said
nothing ut "good evening" and "goodnight."
His homework situation, however, was now desperate, and when he returned to the Gryffindor
common room he did not, though exhausted, go to ed, ut opened his ooks and egan Snape’s
moonstone essay. It was half past two y the time he had finished it. He knew he had done a poor
jo, ut there was no help for it; unless he had something to give in he would e in detention
with Snape next. He then dashed off answers to the questions Professor McGonagall had set
them, coled together something on the proper handling of Bowtruckles for Professor Gruly-
Plank, and staggered up to ed, where he fell fully clothed on top of the covers and fell asleep
immediately.
Thursday passed in a haze of tiredness. Ron seemed very sleepy too, though Harry could not see
why he should e. Harry’s third detention passed in the same way as the previous two, except
that after two hours the words I must not tell lies did not fade from the ack of Harrys hand, ut
remained scratched there, oozing droplets of lood. The pause in the pointed quill’s scratching
made Professor Umridge look up.
"Ah," she said softly, moving around her desk to examine his hand herself. "Good. That ought to
serve as a reminder to you, oughtn’t it? You may leave for tonight."
"Do I still have to come ack tomorrow?" said Harry picking up his schoolag with his left hand
rather than his smarting right one.
"Oh yes," said Professor Umridge, smiling as widely as efore. "Yes, I think we can etch the
message a little deeper with another evening’s work."
Harry had never efore considered the possiility that there might e another teacher in the
world he hated more than Snape, ut as he walked ack towards Gryffindor Tower he had to
admit he had found a strong contender. She’s evil, he thought, as he climed a staircase to the
seventh floor, she’s an evil, twisted, mad old-
"Ron?"
He had reached the top of the stairs, turned right and almost walked into Ron, who was lurking
ehind a statue of Lachlan the Lanky, clutching his roomstick. He gave a great leap of surprise
when he saw Harry and attempted to hide his new Cleansweep Eleven ehind his ack.
"What are you doing?"
"Er - nothing. What are you doing?"
Harry frowned at him.
"Come on, you can tell me! What are you hiding here for?"
"I’m - I’m hiding from Fred and George, if you must know," said Ron. "They just went past with a unch of first-years, I et they’re testing stuff on them again. I mean, they can’t do it in the
common room now, can they, not with Hermione there."
He was talking in a very fast, feverish way.
"But what have you got your room for, you haven’t een flying, have you?" Harry asked.
"I - well - well, okay, I’ll tell you, ut don’t laugh, all right?" Ron said defensively, turning redder with every second. "I - I thought I’d try out for Gryffindor Keeper now I’ve got a decent room. There. Go on. Laugh."
"I’m not laughing," said Harry. Ron linked. "It’s a rilliant idea! It’d e really cool if you got on the team! I’ve never seen you play Keeper, are you good?"
"I’m not ad," said Ron, who looked immensely relieved at Harry’s reaction. "Charlie, Fred and
George always made me Keep for them when they were training during the holidays."
"So you’ve een practicing tonight?"
"Every evening since Tuesday... just on my own, though. I’ve een trying to ewitch Quaffles to
fly at me, ut it hasn’t een easy and I don’t know how much use it’ll e." Ron looked nervous
and anxious. "Fred and George are going to laugh themselves stupid when I turn up for the
tryouts. They haven’t stopped taking the mickey out of me since I got made a prefect."
"I wish I was going to e there," said Harry itterly, as they set off together towards the common
room.
"Yeah, so do - Harry, what’s that on the ack of your hand?"
Harry, who had just scratched his nose with his free right hand, tried to hide it, ut had as much
success as Ron with his Cleansweep.
"It’s just a cut - it’s nothing - it’s -"
But Ron had graed Harry’s forearm and pulled the ack of Harry’s hand up level with his
eyes. There was a pause, during which he stared at the words carved into the skin, then, looking
sick, he released Harry.
"I thought you said she was just giving you lines?"
Harry hesitated, ut after all, Ron had een honest with him, so he told Ron the truth aout the
hours he had een spending in Umridge’s office.
"The old hag!" Ron said in a revolted whisper as they came to a halt in front of the Fat Lady, who was dozing peacefully with her head against her frame. "She’s sick! Go to McGonagall, say
something!"
"No," said Harry at once. "I’m not giving her the satisfaction of knowing she’s got to me."
"Got to you? You can’t let her get away with this!"
"I don’t know how much power McGonagall’s got over her," said Harry.
"Dumledore, then, tell Dumledore!"
"No," said Harry flatly.
"Why not?"
"He’s got enough on his mind," said Harry, ut that was not the true reason. He was not going to
go to Dumledore for help when Dumledore had not spoken to him once since June.
"Well, I reckon you should -" Ron egan, ut he was interrupted y the Fat Lady, who had een
watching them sleepily and now urst out, "Are you going to give me the password or will I have to stay awake all night waiting for you to finish your conversation?"
Friday dawned sullen and sodden as the rest of the week. Though Harry automatically glanced
towards the staff tale when he entered the Great Hall, it was without any real hope of seeing
Hagrid, and he turned his mind immediately to his more pressing prolems, such as the
mountainous pile of homework he had to do and the prospect of yet another detention with
Umridge.
Two things sustained Harry that day. One was the thought that it was almost the weekend; the
other was that, dreadful though his final detention with Umridge was sure to e, he had a distant
view of the Quidditch pitch from her window and might, with luck, e ale to see something of
Ron’s tryout. These were rather feele rays of light, it was true, ut Harry was grateful for
anything that might lighten his present darkness; he had never had a worse first week of term at
Hogwarts.
At five o’clock that evening he knocked on Professor Umridge’s office door for what he
sincerely hoped would e the final time, and was told to enter. The lank parchment lay ready
for him on the lace-covered tale, the pointed lack quill eside it.
"You know what to do, Mr. Potter," said Umridge, smiling sweetly at him.
Harry picked up the quill and glanced through the window. If he just shifted his chair an inch or
so to the right... on the pretext of shifting himself closer to the tale, he managed it. He now had
a distant view of the Gryffindor Quidditch team soaring up and down the pitch, while half a
dozen lack figures stood at the foot of the three high goalposts, apparently awaiting their turn to
Keep. It was impossile to tell which one was Ron at this distance.
I must not tell lies, Harry wrote. The cut in the ack of his right hand opened and egan to leed
afresh.
I must not tell lies. The cut dug deeper, stinging and smarting.
I must not tell lies. Blood trickled down his wrist.
He chanced another glance out of the window. Whoever was defending the goalposts now was
doing a very poor jo indeed. Katie Bell scored twice in the few seconds Harry dared to watch.
Hoping very much that the Keeper wasn’t Ron, he dropped his eyes ack to the parchment
shining with lood.
I must not tell lies.
I must not tell lies.
He looked up whenever he thought he could risk it; when he could hear the scratching of
Umridges quill or the opening of a desk drawer. The third person to try out was pretty good, the
fourth was terrile, the fifth dodged a Bludger exceptionally well ut then fumled an easy save.
The sky was darkening, and Harry douted he would e ale to see the sixth and seventh people
at all.
I must not tell lies.
I must not tell lies.
The parchment was now dotted with drops of lood from the ack of his hand, which was
searing with pain. When he next looked up, night had fallen and the Quidditch pitch was no
longer visile.
"Let’s see if you’ve gotten the message yet, shall we?" said Umridges soft voice half an hour later. She moved towards him, stretching out her short ringed fingers for his arm. And then, as she took hold of him to examine the words now cut into his skin, pain seared, not across the ack of his hand, ut across the scar on his forehead. At the same time, he had a most peculiar sensation somewhere around his midriff.
He wrenched his arm out of her grip and leapt to his feet, staring at her. She looked ack at him,
a smile stretching her wide, slack mouth.
"Yes, it hurts, doesn’t it?" she said softly.
He did not answer. His heart was thumping very hard and fast. Was she talking aout his hand or
did she know what he had just felt in his forehead?
"Well, I think I’ve made my point, Mr. Potter. You may go."
He caught up his schoolag and left the room as quickly as he could.
Stay calm, he told himself, as he sprinted up the stairs. Stay calm, it doesn’t necessarily mean
what you think it means...
"Mimulus mimletonia!" he gasped at the Fat Lady, who swung forwards once more.
A roar of sound greeted him. Ron came running towards him, eaming all over his face and
slopping Buttereer down his front from the golet he was clutching.
"Harry, I did it, I’m in, I’m Keeper!"
"What? Oh - rilliant!" said Harry, trying to smile naturally, while his heart continued to race and his hand throed and led.
"Have a Buttereer." Ron pressed a ottle on him. "I can’t elieve it - where’s Hermione gone?"
"She’s there," said Fred, who was also swigging Buttereer, and pointed to an armchair y the
fire. Hermione was dozing in it, her drink tipping precariously in her hand.
"Well, she said she was pleased when I told her," said Ron, looking slightly put out.
"Let her sleep," said George hastily. It was a few moments efore Harry noticed that several of
the first-years gathered around them ore unmistakale signs of recent noseleeds.
"Come here, Ron, and see if Oliver’s old roes fit you," called Katie Bell, "we can take off his
name and put yours on instead..."
As Ron moved away, Angelina came striding up to Harry.
"Sorry I was a it short with you earlier, Potter," she said aruptly. "It’s stressful this managing
lark, you know, I’m starting to think I was a it hard on Wood sometimes." She was watching
Ron over the rim of her golet with a slight frown on her face.
"Look, I know he’s your est mate, ut he’s not faulous," she said luntly. "I think with a it of
training he’ll e all right, though. He comes from a family of good Quidditch players. I’m
anking on him turning out to have a it more talent than he showed today, to e honest. Vicky
Froisher and Geoffrey Hooper oth flew etter this evening, ut Hoopers a real whiner, he’s
always moaning aout something or other, and Vicky’s involved in all sorts of societies. She
admitted herself that if training clashed with her Charms Clu she’d put Charms first. Anyway,
we’re having a practice session at two o’clock tomorrow, so just make sure you’re there this
time. And do me a favor and help Ron as much as you can, okay?"
He nodded, and Angelina strolled ack to Alicia Spinnet. Harry moved over to sit next to
Hermione, who awoke with a jerk as he put down his ag.
"Oh, Harry, it’s you... good aout Ron, isn’t it?" she said learily. "I’m just so-so - so tired," she
yawned. "I was up until one o’clock making more hat s. They’re disappearing like mad!"
And sure enough, now that he looked, Harry saw that there were woolly hats concealed all
around the room where unwary elves might accidentally pick them up.
"Great," said Harry distractedly; if he did not tell someody soon, he would urst. "Listen,
Hermione, I was just up in Umridge’s office and she touched my arm."
Hermione listened closely. When Harry had finished, she said slowly "You’re worried You-
Know-Who’s controlling her like he controlled Quirrell?"
"Well," said Harry, dropping his voice, "it’s a possiility, isn’t it?"
"I suppose so," said Hermione, though she sounded unconvinced. "But I don’t think he can
e possessing her the way he possessed Quirrell, I mean, he’s properly alive again now, isn’t he,
he’s got his own ody, he wouldn’t need to share someone else’s. He could have her under the
Imperius Curse, I suppose..."
Harry watched Fred, George and Lee Jordan juggling empty Buttereer ottles for a moment.
Then Hermione said, "But last year your scar hurt when noody was touching you, and didn’t
Dumledore say it had to do with what You-Know-Who was feeling at the time? I mean, maye
this hasn’t got anything to do with Umridge at all, maye it’s just coincidence it happened
while you were with her?"
"She’s evil," said Harry flatly. "Twisted."
"She’s horrile, yes, ut... Harry, I think you ought to tell Dumledore your scar hurt."
It was the second time in two days he had een advised to go to Dumledore and his answer to
Hermione was just the same as his answer to Ron.
"I’m not othering him with this. Like you just said, its not a ig deal. It’s een hurting on and
off all summer - it was just a it worse tonight, that’s all -"
"Harry, I’m sure Dumledore would want to e othered y this -"
"Yeah," said Harry, efore he could stop himself, "that’s the only it of me Dumledore cares
aout, isn’t it, my scar?"
"Don’t say that, it’s not true!"
"I think I’ll write and tell Sirius aout it, see what he thinks -"
"Harry, you can’t put something like that in a letter!" said Hermione, looking alarmed. "Don’t
you rememer, Moody told us to e careful what we put in writing! We just can’t guarantee owls
aren’t eing intercepted any more!"
"All right, all right, I won’t tell him, then!" said Harry irritaly. He got to his feet. "I’m going to
ed. Tell Ron for me, will you?"
"Oh no," said Hermione, looking relieved, "if you’re going that means I can go too, without eing rude. I’m asolutely exhausted and I want to make some more hats tomorrow. Listen, you can help me if you like, it’s quite fun, I’m getting etter, I can do patterns and oles and all sorts of things now."
Harry looked into her face, which was shining with glee, and tried to look as though he was
vaguely tempted y this offer.
"Er... no, I don’t think I will, thanks," he said. "Er- not tomorrow. I’ve got loads of homework to
do..."
And he traipsed off to the oys’ stairs, leaving her looking slightly disappointed.
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Percy and Padfoot
Harry was first to wake up in his dormitory next morning. He lay for a moment watching dust
swirl in the chink of sunlight coming through the gap in his four-posters hangings, and savored
the thought that it was Saturday. The first week of term seemed to have dragged on forever, like
one gigantic History of Magic lesson.
Judging y the sleepy silence and the freshly minted look of that eam of sunlight, it was just
after dayreak. He pulled open the curtains around his ed, got up and started to dress. The only
sound apart from the distant twittering of irds was the slow, deep reathing of his fellow
Gryffindors. He opened his schoolag carefully, pulled out parchment and quill and headed out
of the dormitory for the common room.
Making straight for his favorite squashy old armchair eside the now extinct fire, Harry settled
himself down comfortaly and unrolled his parchment while looking around the room. The
detritus of crumpled-up its of parchment, old Gostones, empty ingredient jars and sweet
wrappers that usually covered the common room at the end of each day was gone, as were all
Hermione’s elf hats. Wondering vaguely how many elves had now een set free whether they
wanted to e or not, Harry uncorked his ink ottle, dipped his quill into it, then held it suspended
an inch aove the smooth yellowish surface of his parchment, thinking hard... ut after a minute
or so he found himself staring into the empty grate, at a complete loss for what to say.
He could now appreciate how hard it had een for Ron and Hermione to write him letters over
the summer. How was he supposed to tell Sirius everything that had happened over the past
week and pose all the questions he was urning to ask without giving potential letter-thieves a lot
of information he did not want them to have?
He sat quite motionless for a while, gazing into the fireplace, then, finally coming to a decision,
he dipped his quill into the ink ottle once more and set it resolutely on the parchment.
Dear Snuffles,
Hope you’re okay, the first week ack here’s een terrile, I’m really glad it’s the weekend.
We’ve got a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Umridge. She’s nearly as
nice as your mum. I’m writing ecause that thing I wrote to you aout last summer happened
again last night when I was doing a detention with Umridge.
We’re all missing our iggest friend, we hope he’ll e ack soon.
Please write ack quickly.
Best,
Harry
Harry reread the letter several times, trying to see it from the point of view of an outsider. He
could not see how they would know what he was talking aout - or who he was talking to - just
from reading this letter. He did hope Sirius would pick up the hint aout Hagrid and tell them
when he might e ack. Harry did not want to ask directly in case it drew too much attention to
what Hagrid might e up to while he was not at Hogwarts.
Considering it was a very short letter, it had taken a long time to write; sunlight had crept
halfway across the room while he had een working on it and he could now hear distant sounds
of movement from the dormitories aove. Sealing the parchment carefully, he climed through
the portrait hole and headed off for the Owlery.
"I would not go that way if I were you," said Nearly Headless Nick, drifting disconcertingly
through a wall just ahead of Harry as he walked down the passage. "Peeves is planning an
amusing joke on the next person to pass the ust of Paracelsus halfway down the corridor."
"Does it involve Paracelsus falling on top of the persons head?" asked Harry.
"Funnily enough, it does," said Nearly Headless Nick in a ored voice. "Sutlety has never een
Peeves’s strong point. I’m off to try and find the Bloody Baron... he might e ale to put a stop
to it... see you, Harry"
"Yeah, ye," said Harry and instead of turning right, he turned left, taking a longer ut safer route up to the Owlery. His spirits rose as he walked past window after window showing rilliantly lue sky; he had training later, he would e ack on the Quidditch pitch at last.
Something rushed his ankles. He looked down and saw the caretaker’s skeletal grey cat, Mrs.
Norris, slinking past him. She turned lamplike yellow eyes on him for a moment efore
disappearing ehind a statue of Wilfred the Wistful.
"I’m not doing anything wrong," Harry called after her. She had the unmistakale air of a cat
that was off to report to her oss, yet Harry could not see why; he was perfectly entitled to walk
up to the Owlery on a Saturday morning.
The sun was high in the sky now and when Harry entered the Owlery the glassless windows
dazzled his eyes; thick silvery eams of sunlight crisscrossed the circular room in which
hundreds of owls nestled on rafters, a little restless in the early-morning light, some clearly just
returned from hunting. The straw-covered floor crunched a little as he stepped across tiny animal
ones, craning his neck for a sight of Hedwig.
"There you are," he said, spotting her somewhere near the very top of the vaulted ceiling. "Get
down here, I’ve got a letter for you."
With a low hoot she stretched her great white wings and soared down on to his shoulder.
"Right, I know this says Snuffles on the outside," he told her, giving her the letter to clasp in her
eak and, without knowing exactly why, whispering, "ut it’s for Sirius, okay?"
She linked her amer eyes once and he took that to mean that she understood.
"Safe flight, then," said Harry and he carried her to one of the windows; with a moment’s
pressure on his arm, Hedwig took off into the lindingly right sky. He watched her until she
ecame a tiny lack speck and vanished, then switched his gaze to Hagrid’s hut, clearly visile
from this window, and just as clearly uninhaited, the chimney smokeless, the curtains drawn.
The treetops of the Foridden Forest swayed in a light reeze. Harry watched them, savoring
the fresh air on his face, thinking aout Quidditch later... then he saw it. A great, reptilian
winged horse, just like the ones pulling the Hogwarts carriages, with leathery lack wings spread
wide like a pterodactyl’s, rose up out of the trees like a grotesque, giant ird. It soared in a great
circle, then plunged ack into the trees. The whole thing had happened so quickly, Harry could
hardly elieve what he had seen, except that his heart was hammering madly.
The Owlery door opened ehind him. He leapt in shock and, turning quickly, saw Cho Chang
holding a letter and a parcel in her hands.
"Hi," said Harry automatically.
"Oh... hi," she said reathlessly. "I didn’t think anyone would e up here this early... I only
rememered five minutes ago, it’s my mum’s irthday."
She held up the parcel.
"Right," said Harry. His rain seemed to have jammed. He wanted to say something funny and
interesting, ut the memory of that terrile winged horse was fresh in his mind.
"Nice day," he said, gesturing to the windows. His insides seemed to shrivel with emarrassment.
The weather. He was talking aout the weather...
"Yeah," said Cho, looking around for a suitale owl. "Good Quidditch conditions. I haven’t een
out all week, have you?"
"No," said Harry.
Cho had selected one of the school arn owls. She coaxed it down on to her arm where it held
out an oliging leg so that she could attach the parcel.
"Hey, has Gryffindor got a new Keeper yet?" she asked.
"Yeah," said Harry. "It’s my friend Ron Weasley, d’you know him?"
"The Tornados-hater?" said Cho rather coolly. "Is he any good?"
"Yeah," said Harry, "I think so. I didn’t see his tryout, though, I was in detention."
Cho looked up, the parcel only half-attached to the owl’s legs.
"That Umridge woman’s foul," she said in a low voice. "Putting you in detention just ecause
you told the truth aout how - how - how he died. Everyone heard aout it, it was all over the
school. You were really rave standing up to her like that."
Harry’s insides re-inflated so rapidly he felt as though he might actually float a few inches off
the dropping-strewn floor. Who cared aout a stupid flying horse; Cho thought he had een
really rave. For a moment, he considered accidentally-on-purpose showing her his cut hand as
he helped her tie her parcel on to her owl... ut the very instant this thrilling thought occurred,
the Owlery door opened again.
Filch the caretaker came wheezing into the room. There were purple patches on his sunken,
veined cheeks, his jowls were aquiver and his thin grey hair disheveled; he had oviously run
here. Mrs. Norris came trotting at his heels, gazing up at the owls overhead and mewing hungrily.
There was a restless shifting of wings from aove and a large rown owl snapped his eak in a
menacing fashion.
"Aha!’ said Filch, taking a flat-footed step toward s Harry, his pouchy cheeks tremling with
anger. "I’ve had a tip-off that you are intending to place a massive order for Dungoms!"
Harry folded his arms and stared at the caretaker.
"Who told you I was ordering Dungoms?"
Cho was looking from Harry to Filch, also frowning; the arn owl on her arm, tired of standing
on one leg, gave an admonitory hoot ut she ignored it.
"I have my sources," said Filch in a self-satisfied hiss. "Now hand over whatever it is you’re
sending."
Feeling immensely thankful that he had not dawdled in posting off the letter, Harry said, "I can’t,
it’s gone."
"Gone?" said Filch, his face contorting with rage.
"Gone," said Harry calmly.
Filch opened his mouth furiously, mouthed for a few seconds, then raked Harrys roes with his
eyes.
"How do I know you haven’t got it in your pocket?"
"Because -"
"I saw him send it," said Cho angrily.
Filch rounded on her.
"You saw him -?"
"That’s right, I saw him," she said fiercely.
There was a moments pause in which Filch glared at Cho and Cho glared right ack, then the
caretaker turned on his heel and shuffled ack towards the door. He stopped with his hand on the
handle and looked ack at Harry.
"If I get so much as a whiff of a Dungom."
He stumped off down the stairs. Mrs. Norris cast a last longing look at the owls and followed
him.
Harry and Cho looked at each other.
"Thanks," Harry said.
"No prolem," said Cho, finally fixing the parcel to the arn owl’s other leg, her face slightly
pink. "You weren’t ordering Dungoms, were you?"
"No," said Harry.
"I wonder why he thought you were, then?" she said as she carried the owl to the window.
Harry shrugged. He was quite as mystified y that as she was, though oddly it was not othering
him very much at the moment.
They left the Owlery together. At the entrance of a corridor that led towards the west wing of the
castle, Cho said, "I’m going this way. Well, I’ll... I’ll see you around, Harry."
"Yeah... see you."
She smiled at him and departed. Harry walked on, feeling quietly elated. He had managed to
have an entire conversation with her and not emarrassed himself once... you were really rave
standing up to her like that... Cho had called him rave... she did not hate him for eing alive...
Of course, she had preferred Cedric, he knew that... though if he’d only asked her to the Ball
efore Cedric had, things might have turned out differently... she had seemed sincerely sorry
that she’d had to refuse when Harry asked her...
"Morning," Harry said rightly to Ron and Hermione as he joined them at the Gryffindor tale in
the Great Hall.
"What are you looking so pleased aout?" said Ron, eyeing Harry in surprise.
"Erm... Quidditch later," said Harry happily, pulling a large platter of acon and eggs towards
him.
"Oh... yeah..." said Ron. He put down the piece of toast he was eating and took a large swig of
pumpkin juice. Then he said, "Listen... you don’t fancy going out a it earlier with me, do you?
Just to - er - give me some practice efore training? So I can, you know, get my eye in a it."
"Yeah, okay," said Harry.
"Look, I don’t think you should," said Hermione seriously. "You’re oth really ehind on
homework as it -"
But she roke off; the morning post was arriving and, as usual, the Daily Prophet was soaring
towards her in the eak of a screech owl, which landed perilously close to the sugar owl and
held out a leg. Hermione pushed a Knut into its leather pouch, took the newspaper, and scanned
the front page critically as the owl took off.
"Anything interesting?" said Ron. Harry grinned, knowing Ron was keen to keep her off the
suject of homework.
"No," she sighed, "just some guff aout the ass player in the Weird Sisters getting married."
Hermione opened the paper and disappeared ehind it. Harry devoted himself to another helping
of eggs and acon. Ron was staring up at the high windows, looking slightly preoccupied.
"Wait a moment," said Hermione suddenly. "Oh no... Sirius!"
"What’s happened?" said Harry, snatching at the paper so violently it ripped down the middle,
with him and Hermione each holding one half.
"‘The Ministry of Magic has received a tip-off from a reliale source that Sirius Black, notorious
mass murderer... lah lah lah... is currently hiding in London!’" Hermione read from her half
in an anguished whisper.
"Lucius Malfoy I’ll et anything," said Harry in a low, furious voice. "He did recognize Sirius on the platform..."
"What?" said Ron, looking alarmed. "You didn’t say -"
"Shh!" said the other two.
"... ‘warns wizarding community that Black is very dangerous... killed thirteen people... roke
out of Azkaan... ’ the usual ruish," Hermione concluded, laying down her half of the paper
and looking fearfully at Harry and Ron. "Well, he just won’t e ale to leave the house again,
that’s all," she whispered. "Dumledore did warn him not to."
Harry looked down glumly at the it of the Prophet he had torn off. Most of the page was devoted to an advertisement for Madam Malkins Roes for All Occasions, which was apparently having a sale.
"Hey!" he said, flattening it down so Hermione and Ron could see it. "Look at this!"
"I’ve got all the roes I want," said Ron.
"No," said Harry. "Look... this little piece here..."
Ron and Hermione ent closer to read it; the item was arely an inch long and placed right at the
ottom of a column. It was headlined:
TRESPASS AT MINISTRY
Sturgis Podmore, 38, of numer two, Laurnum Garden s, Clapham, has appeared in front of the
Wizengamot charged with trespass and attempted roery at the Ministry of Magic on31st
August. Podmore was arrested y Ministry of Magic watchwizard Eric Munch, who found him
attempting to force his way through a top-security door at one o’clock in the morning. Podmore,
who refused to speak in his own defense, was convicted on oth charges and sentenced to six
months in Azkaan.
"Sturgis Podmore?" said Ron slowly. "He’s that loke who looks like his head’s een thatched,
isn’t he? He’s one of the Ord--"
"Ron, shh!" said Hermione, casting a terrified look around them.
"Six months in Azkaan!" whispered Harry, shocked. "Just for trying to get through a door!"
"Don’t e silly, it wasn’t just for trying to get through a door. What on earth was he doing at the
Ministry of Magic at one o’clock in the morning?" reathed Hermione.
"D’you reckon he was doing something for the Order?" Ron muttered.
"Wait a moment..." said Harry slowly. "Sturgis was supposed to come and see us off,
rememer?"
The other two looked at him.
"Yeah, he was supposed to e part of our guard going to King’s Cross, rememer? And Moody
was all annoyed ecause he didn’t turn up; so he couldn’t have een on a jo for them, could
he?"
"Well, maye they didn’t expect him to get caught," said Hermione.
"It could e a frame-up!" Ron exclaimed excitedly. "No - listen!" he went on, dropping his voice
dramatically at the threatening look on Hermione’s face. "The Ministry suspects he’s one of
Dumledore’s lot so - I dunno - they lured him to the Ministry, and he wasn’t trying to get
through a door at all! Maye they’ve just made something up to get him!"
There was a pause while Harry and Hermione considered this. Harry thought it seemed farfetched.
Hermione, on the other hand, looked rather impressed.
"Do you know, I wouldn’t e at all surprised if that were true."
She folded up her half of the newspaper thoughtfully. As Harry laid down his knife and fork, she
seemed to come out of a reverie.
"Right, well, I think we should tackle that essay for Sprout on self-fertilizing shrus first and if
we’re lucky we’ll e ale to start McGonagall’s Inanimatus Conjurus Spell efore lunch..."
Harry felt a small twinge of guilt at the thought of the pile of homework awaiting him upstairs,
ut the sky was a clear, exhilarating lue, and he had not een on his Fireolt for a week...
"I mean, we can do it tonight," said Ron, as he and Harry walked down the sloping lawns towards the Quidditch pitch, their roomsticks over their shoulders, and with Hermione’s dire warnings that they would fail all their OWLs still ringing in their ears. "And we’ve got tomorrow. She gets too worked up aout work, that’s her troule..." There was a pause and he added, in a slightly more anxious tone, "D’you think she meant it when she said we weren’t copying from her?"
"Yeah, I do," said Harry. "Still, this is important, too, we’ve got to practice if we want to stay on
the Quidditch team..."
"Yeah, that’s right," said Ron, in a heartened tone. "And we have got plenty of time to do it all..."
As they approached the Quidditch pitch, Harry glanced over to his right to where the trees of the
Foridden Forest were swaying darkly. Nothing flew out of them; the sky was empty ut for a
few distant owls fluttering around the Owlery tower. He had enough to worry aout; the flying
horse wasn’t doing him any harm; he pushed it out of his mind.
They collected alls from the cupoard in the changing room and set to work, Ron guarding the
three tall goalposts, Harry playing Chaser and trying to get the Quaffle past Ron. Harry thought
Ron was pretty good; he locked three-quarters of the goals Harry attempted to put past him and
played etter the longer they practiced. After a couple of hours they returned to the castle for
lunch - during which Hermione made it quite clear she thought they were irresponsile -- then
returned to the Quidditch pitch for the real training session. All their teammates ut Angelina
were already in the changing room when they entered.
"All right, Ron?" said George, winking at him.
"Yeah," said Ron, who had ecome quieter and quieter all the way down to the pitch.
"Ready to show us all up, Ickle Prefect?" said Fred, emerging tousle-haired from the neck of his
Quidditch roes, a slightly malicious grin on his face.
"Shut up," said Ron, stony-faced, pulling on his own team roes for the first time. They fitted
him well considering they had een Oliver Wood’s, who was rather roader in the shoulder.
"Okay, everyone," said Angelina, entering from the Captain’s office, already changed. "Let’s get to it; Alicia and Fred, if you can just ring out the all crate for us. Oh, and there are a couple of
people out there watching ut I want you to just ignore them, all right?"
Something in her would-e casual voice made Harry think he might know who the uninvited
spectators were, and sure enough, when they left the changing room for the right sunlight of the
pitch it was to a storm of catcalls and jeers from the Slytherin Quidditch team and assorted
hangers-on, who were grouped halfway up the empty stands and whose voices echoed loudly
around the stadium.
"What’s that Weasley’s riding?’" Malfoy called in his sneering drawl. "Why would anyone put a
flying charm on a mouldy old log like that?"
Crae, Goyle and Pansy Parkinson guffawed and shrieked with laughter. Ron mounted his
room and kicked off from the ground and Harry followed him, watching his ears turn red from
ehind.
"Ignore them," he said, accelerating to catch up with Ron, "we’ll see who’s laughing after we
play them..."
"Exactly the attitude I want, Harry," said Angelina approvingly, soaring around them with the
Quaffle under her arm and slowing to hover on the spot in front of her airorne team. "Okay,
everyone, we’re going to start with some passes just to warm up, the whole team please -"
"Hey, Johnson, what’s with that hairstyle, anyway?" shrieked Pansy Parkinson from elow. "Why would anyone want to look like they’ve got worms coming out of their head?"
Angelina swept her long raided hair out of her face and continued calmly, "Spread out, then,
and let’s see what we can do..."
Harry reversed away from the others to the far side of the pitch. Ron fell ack towards the
opposite goal. Angelina raised the Quaffle with one hand and threw it hard to Fred, who passed
to George, who passed to Harry, who passed to Ron, who dropped it.
The Slytherins, led y Malfoy, roared and screamed with laughter. Ron, who had pelted towards
the ground to catch the Quaffle efore it landed, pulled out of the dive untidily, so that he slipped
sideways on his room, and returned to playing height, lushing. Harry saw Fred and George
exchange looks, ut uncharacteristically neither of them said anything, for which he was grateful.
"Pass it on, Ron," called Angelina, as though nothing had happened.
Ron threw the Quaffle to Alicia, who passed ack to Harry, who passed to George...
"Hey, Potter, how’s your scar feeling?" called Malfoy. "Sure you don’t need a lie down? It must
e, what, a whole week since you were in the hospital wing, that’s a record for you, isn’t it?"
George passed to Angelina; she reverse-passed to Harry, who had not een expecting it, ut
caught it in the very tips of his fingers and passed it quickly to Ron, who lunged for it and missed
y inches.
"Come on now, Ron," said Angelina crossly, as he dived for the ground again, chasing the
Quaffle. "Pay attention."
It would have een hard to say whether Ron’s face or the Quaffle was a deeper scarlet when he
again returned to playing height. Malfoy and the rest of the Slytherin team were howling with
laughter.
On his third attempt, Ron caught the Quaffle; perhaps out of relief he passed it on so
enthusiastically that it soared straight through Katie’s outstretched hands and hit her hard in the
face.
"Sorry!" Ron groaned, zooming forwards to see whether he had done any damage.
"Get ack in position, she’s fine!" arked Angelina. "But as you’re passing to a teammate, do try
not to knock her off her room, won’t you? We’ve got Bludgers for that!"
Katie’s nose was leeding. Down elow, the Slytherins were stamping their feet and jeering.
Fred and George converged on Katie.
"Here, take this," Fred told her, handing her something small and purple from out of his pocket,
"it’ll clear it up in no time."
"All right," called Angelina, "Fred, George, go and get your ats and a Bludger. Ron, get up to
the goalposts. Harry, release the Snitch when I say so. We’re going to aim for Ron’s goal,
oviously."
Harry zoomed off after the twins to fetch the Snitch.
"Ron’s making a right pig’s ear of things, isn’t he?" muttered George, as the three of them landed at the crate containing the alls and opened it to extract one of the Bludgers and the Snitch.
"He’s just nervous," said Harry, "he was fine when I was practicing with him this morning."
"Yeah, well, I hope he hasn’t peaked too soon," said Fred gloomily.
They returned to the air. When Angelina lew her whistle, Harry released the Snitch and Fred
and George let fly the Bludger. From that moment on, Harry was arely aware of what the others
were doing. It was his jo to recapture the tiny fluttering golden all that was worth a hundred
and fifty points to the Seeker’s team and doing so required enormous speed and skill. He
accelerated, rolling and swerving in and out of the Chasers, the warm autumn air whipping his
face, and the distant yells of the Slytherins so much meaningless roaring in his ears... ut too
soon, the whistle rought him to a halt again.
"Stop - stop - STOP!" screamed Angelina. "Ron - you’re not covering your middle post!"
Harry looked round at Ron, who was hovering in front of the left-hand hoop, leaving the other
two completely unprotected.
"Oh... sorry..."
"You keep shifting around while you’re watching the Chasers!" said Angelina. "Either stay in
center position until you have to move to defend a hoop, or else circle the hoops, ut don’t drift
vaguely off to one side, that’s how you let in the last three goals!"
"Sorry..." Ron repeated, his red face shining like a eacon against the right lue sky.
"And Katie, can’t you do something aout that noseleed?"
"It’s just getting worse!" said Katie thickly, attempting to stem the flow with her sleeve.
Harry glanced round at Fred, who was looking anxious and checking his pockets. He saw Fred
pull out something purple, examine it for a second and then look round at Katie, evidently
horror-struck.
"Well, let’s try again," said Angelina. She was ignoring the Slytherins, who had now set up a
chant of "Gryffindor are losers, Gryffindor are losers," ut there was a certain rigidity aout her
seat on the room nevertheless.
This time they had een flying for arely three minutes when Angelina’s whistle sounded. Harry,
who had just sighted the Snitch circling the opposite goalpost, pulled up feeling distinctly
aggrieved.
"What now?" he said impatiently to Alicia, who was nearest.
"Katie," she said shortly.
Harry turned and saw Angelina, Fred and George all flying as fast as they could towards Katie.
Harry and Alicia sped towards her, too. It was plain that Angelina had stopped training just in
time; Katie was now chalk white and covered in lood.
"She needs the hospital wing," said Angelina.
"We’ll take her," said Fred. "She - er - might have swallowed a Blood Blisterpod y mistake -"
"Well, there’s no point continuing with no Beaters and a Chaser gone," said Angelina glumly as
Fred and George zoomed off towards the castle supporting Katie etween them. "Come on, let’s
go and get changed."
The Slytherins continued to chant as they trailed ack into the changing rooms.
"How was practice?" asked Hermione rather coolly half an hour later, as Harry and Ron climed
through the portrait hole into the Gryffindor common room.
"It was -" Harry egan.
"Completely lousy," said Ron in a hollow voice, sinking into a chair eside Hermione. She
looked up at Ron and her frostiness seemed to melt.
"Well, it was only your first one," she said consolingly, "it’s ound to take time to -"
"Who said it was me who made it lousy?" snapped Ron.
"No one," said Hermione, looking taken aack, "I thought -"
"You thought I was ound to e ruish?"
"No, of course I didn’t! Look, you said it was lousy so I just -"
"I’m going to get started on some homework," said Ron angrily and stomped off to the staircase
to the oys’ dormitories and vanished from sight. Hermione turned to Harry.
"Was he lousy?"
"No," said Harry loyally.
Hermione raised her eyerows.
"Well, I suppose he could’ve played etter," Harry muttered, "ut it was only the first training
session, like you said..."
Neither Harry nor Ron seemed to make much headway with their homework that night. Harry
knew Ron was too preoccupied with how adly he had performed at Quidditch practice and he
himself was having difficulty in getting the "Gryffindor are losers" chant out of his head.
They spent the whole of Sunday in the common room, uried in their ooks while the room
around them filled up, then emptied. It was another clear, fine day and most of their fellow
Gryffindors spent the day out in the grounds, enjoying what might well e some of the last
sunshine that year. By the evening, Harry felt as though someody had een eating his rain
against the inside of his skull.
"You know, we proaly should try and get more homework done during the week," Harry
muttered to Ron, as they finally laid aside Professor McGonagall’s long essay on the Inanimatus
Conjurus Spell and turned miseraly to Professor Sinistra’s equally long and difficult essay
aout Jupiter’s many moons.
"Yeah," said Ron, ruing slightly loodshot eyes and throwing his fifth spoiled it of parchment into the fire eside them. "Listen... shall we just ask Hermione if we can have a look at what she’s done?"
Harry glanced over at her; she was sitting with Crookshanks on her lap and chatting merrily to
Ginny as a pair of knitting needles flashed in midair in front of her, now knitting a pair of
shapeless elf socks.
"No," he said heavily, "you know she won’t let us."
And so they worked on while the sky outside the windows ecame steadily darker. Slowly, the
crowd in the common room egan to thin again. At half past eleven, Hermione wandered over to
them, yawning.
"Nearly done?"
"No," said Ron shortly.
"Jupiter’s iggest moon is Ganymede, not Callisto," she said, pointing over Ron’s shoulder at a
line in his Astronomy essay, "and it’s lo that’s got the volcanoes."
"Thanks," snarled Ron, scratching out the offending sentences.
"Sorry, I only -"
"Yeah, well, if you’ve just come over here to criticize -"
"Ron -"
"I haven’t got time to listen to a sermon, all right, Hermione, I’m up to my neck in it here -"
"No - look!"
Hermione was pointing to the nearest window. Harry and Ron oth looked over. A handsome
screech owl was standing on the windowsill, gazing into the room at Ron.
"Isn’t that Hermes?" said Hermione, sounding amazed.
"Blimey, it is!" said Ron quietly, throwing down his quill and getting to his feet. "What’s Percy
writing to me for?"
He crossed to the window and opened it; Hermes flew inside, landed on Ron’s essay and held out
a leg to which a letter was attached. Ron took the letter off it and the owl departed at once,
leaving inky footprints across Ron’s drawing of the moon lo.
"That’s definitely Percy’s handwriting," said Ron, s inking ack into his chair and staring at the
words on the outside of the scroll: Ronald Weasley, Gryffindor House, Hogwarts. He looked up
at the other two. "What d’you reckon?"
"Open it!" said Hermione eagerly, and Harry nodded.
Ron unrolled the scroll and egan to read. The further down the parchment his eyes traveled, the
more pronounced ecame his scowl. When he had finished reading, he looked disgusted. He
thrust the letter at Harry and Hermione, who leaned towards each other to read it together:
Dear Ron,
I have only just heard (from no less a person than the Minister for Magic himself, who has it
from your new teacher, Professor Umridge) that you have ecome a Hogwarts prefect.
I was most pleasantly surprised when I heard this news and must firstly offer my congratulations.
I must admit that I have always een afraid that you would take what we might call the ‘Fred and George’ route, rather than following in my footsteps, so you can imagine my feelings on hearing you have stopped flouting authority and have decided to shoulder some real responsiility.
But I want to give you more than congratulations, Ron, I want to give you some advice, which is
why I am sending this at night rather than y the usual morning post. Hopefully, you will e ale
to read this away from prying eyes and avoid awkward questions.
From something the Minister let slip when telling me you are now a prefect, I gather that you are
still seeing a lot of Harry Potter. I must tell you, Ron, that nothing could put you in danger of
losing your adge more than continued fraternization with that oy. Yes, I am sure you are
surprised to hear this - no dout you will say that Potter has always een Dumledore’s favorite
-- ut I feel ound to tell you that Dumledore may not e in charge at Hogwarts much longer
and the people who count have a very different - and proaly more accurate - view of Potter’s
ehavior. I shall say no more here, ut if you look at the Daily Prophet tomorrow you will get a
good idea of the way the wind is lowing -- and see if you can spot yours truly!
Seriously, Ron, you do not want to e tarred with the same rush as Potter, it could e very
damaging to your future prospects, and I am talking here aout life after school, too. As you
must e aware, given that our father escorted him to court, Potter had a disciplinary hearing this
summer in front of the whole Wizengamot and he did not come out of it looking too good. He
got off on a mere technicality, if you ask me, and many of the people I’ve spoken to remain
convinced of his guilt.
It may e that you are afraid to sever ties with Potter - I know that he can e unalanced and, for
all I know, violent - ut if you have any worries aout this, or have spotted anything else in
Potter’s ehavior that is trouling you, I urge you to speak to Dolores Umridge, a truly
delightful woman who I know will e only too happy to advise you.
This leads me to my other it of advice. As I have hinted aove, Dumledore’s regime at
Hogwarts may soon e over. Your loyalty, Ron, should e not to him, ut to the school and the
Ministry. I am very sorry to hear that, so far, Professor Umridge is encountering very little cooperation from staff as she strives to make those necessary changes within Hogwarts that the
Ministry so ardently desires (although she should find this easier from next week -- again, see
the Daily Prophet tomorrow!). I shall say only this - a student who shows himself willing to help
Professor Umridge now may e very well-placed for Head Boyship in a couple of years!
I am sorry that I was unale to see more of you over the summer. It pains me to criticize our
parents, ut I am afraid I can no longer live under their roof while they remain mixed up with the
dangerous crowd around Dumledore. (If you are writing to Mother at any point, you might tell
her that a certain Sturgis Podmore, who is a great friend of Dumledore’s, has recently een sent to Azkaan for trespass at the Ministry. Perhaps that will open their eyes to the kind of petty
criminals with whom they are currently ruing shoulders.) I count myself very lucky to have
escaped the stigma of association with such people - the Minister really could not e more
gracious to me -- and I do hope, Ron, that you will not allow family ties to lind you to the
misguided nature of our parents’ eliefs and actions, either. I sincerely hope that, in time, they
will realize how mistaken they were and I shall, of course, e ready to accept a full apology when that day comes.
Please think over what I have said most carefully, particularly the it aout Harry Potter, and
congratulations again on ecoming prefect.
Your rother,
Percy
Harry looked up at Ron.
"Well," he said, trying to sound as though he found the whole thing a joke, "if you want to - er -
what is it?" - he checked Percy’s letter - "Oh yeah - ‘severe ties’ with me, I swear I won’t get violent."
"Give it ack," said Ron, holding out his hand. "He is -" Ron said jerkily, tearing Percy’s letter in half "the world’s -" he tore it into quarters "iggest -" he tore it into eighths "git." He threw the pieces into the fire.
"Come on, we’ve got to get this finished sometime efore dawn," he said riskly to Harry,
pulling Professor Sinistra’s essay ack towards him.
Hermione was looking at Ron with an odd expression on her face.
"Oh, give them here," she said aruptly.
"What?" said Ron.
"Give them to me, I’ll look through them and correct them," she said.
"Are you serious? Ah, Hermione, you’re a life-saver," said Ron, "what can I -?"
"What you can say is, promise we’ll never leave our homework this late again," she said,
holding out oth hands for their essays, ut she looked slightly amused all the same.
"Thanks a million, Hermione," said Harry weakly, passing over his essay and sinking ack into
his armchair, ruing his eyes.
It was now past midnight and the common room was deserted ut for the three of them and
Crookshanks. The only sound was that of Hermione’s quill scratching out sentences here and
there on their essays and the ruffle of pages as she checked various facts in the reference ooks
strewn across the tale. Harry was exhausted. He also felt an odd, sick, empty feeling in his
stomach that had nothing to do with tiredness and everything to do with the letter now curling
lackly in the heart of the fire.
He knew that half the people inside Hogwarts thought him strange, even mad; he knew that
the Daily Prophet had een making snide allusions to him for months, ut there was something
aout seeing it written down like that in Percys writing, aout knowing that Percy was advising
Ron to drop him and even to tell tales aout him to Umridge, that made his situation real to him
as nothing else had. He had known Percy for four years, had stayed in his house during the
summer holidays, shared a tent with him during the Quidditch World Cup, had even een
awarded full marks y him in the second task of the Triwizard Tournament last year, yet now,
Percy thought him unalanced and possily violent.
And with a surge of sympathy for his godfather, Harry thought Sirius was proaly the only
person he knew who could really understand how he felt at the moment, ecause Sirius was in
the same situation. Nearly everyone in the wizarding world thought Sirius a dangerous murderer
and a great Voldemort supporter and he had had to live with that knowledge for fourteen years...
Harry linked. He had just seen something in the fire that could not have een there. It had
flashed into sight and vanished immediately. No... it could not have een... he had imagined it
ecause he had een thinking aout Sirius...
"Okay, write that down," Hermione said to Ron, pushing his essay and a sheet covered in her own writing ack to Ron, "then add this conclusion I’ve written for you."
"Hermione, you are honestly the most wonderful person I’ve ever met," said Ron weakly, "and if
I’m ever rude to you again -"
"- I’ll know you’re ack to normal," said Hermione. "Harry, yours is okay except for this it at the end, I think you must have misheard Professor Sinistra, Europa’s covered in ice, not mice -
Harry?"
Harry had slid off his chair on to his knees and was now crouching on the singed and threadare
hearthrug, gazing into the flames.
"Er - Harry?" said Ron uncertainly. "Why are you down there?"
"Because I’ve just seen Sirius’s head in the fire," said Harry.
He spoke quite calmly; after all, he had seen Sirius’s head in this very fire the previous year and
talked to it, too; nevertheless, he could not e sure that he had really seen it this time... it had
vanished so quickly...
"Sirius’s head?" Hermione repeated. "You mean like when he wanted to talk to you during the
Triwizard Tournament? But he wouldn’t do that now, it would e too - Sirius!"
She gasped, gazing at the fire; Ron dropped his quill. There in the middle of the dancing flames
sat Sirius’s head, long dark hair falling around his grinning face.
"I was starting to think you’d go to ed efore everyone else had disappeared," he said. "I’ve
een checking every hour."
"You’ve een popping into the fire every hour?" Harry said, half-laughing.
"Just for a few seconds to check if the coast was clear."
"But what if you’d een seen?" said Hermione anxiously.
"Well, I think a girl - first-year, y the look of her - might’ve got a glimpse of me earlier, ut
don’t worry" Sirius said hastily, as Hermione clapped a hand to her mouth, "I was gone the
moment she looked ack at me and I’ll et she just thought I was an oddly-shaped log or
something."
"But, Sirius, this is taking an awful risk -" Hermione egan.
"You sound like Molly," said Sirius. "This was the only way I could come up with of answering
Harrys letter without resorting to a code - and codes are reakale."
At the mention of Harry’s letter, Hermione and Ron oth turned to stare at him.
"You didn’t say you’d written to Sirius!" said Hermione accusingly.
"I forgot," said Harry, which was perfectly true; h is meeting with Cho in the Owlery had driven
everything efore it out of his mind. "Don’t look at me like that, Hermione, there was no way
anyone would have got secret information out of it, was there, Sirius?"
"No, it was very good," said Sirius, smiling. "Anyway, we’d etter e quick, just in case we’re
distured - your scar."
"What aout -?" Ron egan, ut Hermione interrupted him. "We’ll tell you afterwards. Go on,
Sirius."
"Well, I know it can’t e fun when it hurts, ut we don’t think it’s anything to really worry aout. It kept aching all last year, didn’t it?"
"Yeah, and Dumledore said it happened whenever Voldemort was feeling a powerful emotion,"
said Harry, ignoring, as usual, Ron and Hermione’s winces. "So maye he was just, I dunno,
really angry or something the night I had that detention."
"Well, now he’s ack it’s ound to hurt more often," said Sirius.
"So you don’t think it had anything to do with Umridge touching me when I was in detention
with her?" Harry asked.
"I dout it," said Sirius. "I know her y reputation and I’m sure she’s no Death Eater -"
"She’s foul enough to e one," said Harry darkly, and Ron and Hermione nodded vigorously in
agreement.
"Yes, ut the world isn’t split into good people and Death Eaters," said Sirius with a wry smile. "I know she’s a nasty piece of work, though -- you should hear Remus talk aout her."
"Does Lupin know her?" asked Harry quickly, rememering Umridge’s comments aout
dangerous half-reeds during her first lesson.
"No," said Sirius, "ut she drafted a it of anti-werewolf legislation two years ago that makes it
almost impossile for him to get a jo."
Harry rememered how much shaier Lupin looked these days and his dislike of Umridge
deepened even further.
"What’s she got against werewolves?" said Hermione angrily.
"Scared of them, I expect," said Sirius, smiling at her indignation. "Apparently she loathes part humans; she campaigned to have merpeople rounded up and tagged last year, too. Imagine
wasting your time and energy persecuting merpeople when there are little toerags like Kreacher
on the loose."
Ron laughed ut Hermione looked upset.
"Sirius!" she said reproachfully. "Honestly, if you made a it of an effort with Kreacher, I’m sure he’d respond. After all, you are the only memer of his family he’s got left, and Professor
Dumledore said -"
"So, what are Umridge’s lessons like?" Sirius interrupted. "Is she training you all to kill half-reeds?"
"No," said Harry, ignoring Hermione’s affronted look at eing cut off in her defense of Kreacher. "She’s not letting us use magic at all!"
"All we do is read the stupid textook," said Ron.
"Ah, well, that figures," said Sirius. "Our information from inside the Ministry is that Fudge
doesn’t want you trained in comat."
"Trained in comat!" repeated Harry incredulously. "What does he think we’re doing here,
forming some sort of wizard army?"
"That’s exactly what he thinks you’re doing," said Sirius, "or, rather, that’s exactly what he’s
afraid Dumledore’s doing - forming his own private army, with which he will e ale to take on
the Ministry of Magic."
There was a pause at this, then Ron said, "That’s the most stupid thing I’ve ever heard, including
all the stuff that Luna Lovegood comes out with."
"So we’re eing prevented from learning Defense Against the Dark Arts ecause Fudge is scared
we’ll use spells against the Ministry?" said Hermione, looking furious.
"Yep," said Sirius. "Fudge thinks Dumledore will stop at nothing to seize power. He’s getting
more paranoid aout Dumledore y the day. It’s a matter of time efore he has Dumledore
arrested on some trumped-up charge."
This reminded Harry of Percy’s letter.
"D’you know if there’s going to e anything aout Dumledore in the Daily Prophet tomorrow?
Ron’s rother Percy reckons there will e -"
"I don’t know," said Sirius, "I haven’t seen anyone from the Order all weekend, they’re all usy.
It’s just een Kreacher and me here."
There was a definite note of itterness in Sirius’s voice.
"So you haven’t had any news aout Hagrid, either?"
"Ah..." said Sirius, "well, he was supposed to e ack y now, no one’s sure what’s happened to
him." Then, seeing their stricken faces, he added quickly, "But Dumledore’s not worried, so
don’t you three get yourselves in a state; I’m sure Hagrid’s fine."
"But if he was supposed to e ack y now..." said Hermione in a small, anxious voice.
"Madame Maxime was with him, we’ve een in touch with her and she says they got separated
on the journey home - ut there’s nothing to suggest he’s hurt or - well, nothing to suggest he’s
not perfectly okay."
Unconvinced, Harry, Ron and Hermione exchanged worried looks.
"Listen, don’t go asking too many questions aout Hagrid," said Sirius hastily, "it’ll just draw
even more attention to the fact that he’s not ack and I know Dumledore doesn’t want that.
Hagrid’s tough, he’ll e okay." And when they did not appear cheered y this, Sirius added,
"When’s your next Hogsmeade weekend, anyway? I was thinking, we got away with the dog
disguise at the station, didn’t we? I thought I could --"
"NO!" said Harry and Hermione together, very loudly.
"Sirius, didn’t you see the Daily Prophet?" said Hermione anxiously.
"Oh, that," said Sirius, grinning, "they’re always guessing where I am, they haven’t really got a
clue -"
"Yeah, ut we think this time they have,’ said Harry. "Something Malfoy said on the train made
us think he knew it was you, and his father was on the platform, Sirius - you know, Lucius
Malfoy - so don’t come up here, whatever you do. If Malfoy recognizes you again -"
"All right, all right, I’ve got the point," said Sirius. He looked most displeased. "Just an idea,
thought you might like to get together."
"I would, I just don’t want you chucked ack in Azkaan!" said Harry.
There was a pause in which Sirius looked out of the fire at Harry, a crease etween his sunken
eyes.
"You’re less like your father than I thought," he said finally, a definite coolness in his voice. "The risk would’ve een what made it fun for James."
"Look -"
"Well, I’d etter get going, I can hear Kreacher coming down the stairs," said Sirius, ut Harry
was sure he was lying. "I’ll write to tell you a time I can make it ack into the fire, then, shall I? If you can stand to risk it?"
There was a tiny pop, and the place where Sirius’s head had een was flickering flame once
more.
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
The Hogwarts High Inquisitor
They had expected to have to com Hermione’s Daily Prophet carefully next morning to find the article Percy had mentioned in his letter. However, the departing delivery owl had arely cleared the top of the milk jug when Hermione let out a huge gasp and flattened the newspaper to reveal a large photograph of Dolores Umridge, smiling widely and linking slowly at them from eneath the headline.
MINISTRY SEEKS EDUCATIONAL REFORM
DOLORES UMBRIDGE APPOINTED
FIRST EVER HIGH INQUISITOR
"Umridge - Inquisitor?" said Harry darkly, his half-eaten piece of toast slipping from his fingers. "What does that maen?" Hermione rad aloud:
"In a surprise move last night the Ministry of Magic passed new legislation giving itself an
unprecedented level of control at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
"‘The Minister has een growing uneasy aout goings-on at Hogwarts for some time,’ said junior Assistant to the Minister, Percy Weasley. ‘He is now responding to concerns voiced y anxious parents, who feel the school may e moving in a direction they do not approve.’
"This is not the first time in recent weeks that the Minister, Cornelius Fudge, has used new laws
to effect improvements at the wizarding school. As recently as August 30th, Educational Decree
Numer Twenty-two was passed, to ensure that, in the event of the current Headmaster eing
unale to provide a candidate for a teaching post, the Ministry should select an appropriate
person. ‘That’s how Dolores Umridge came to e appointed to the teaching staff at Hogwarts,’ said Weasley last night. ‘Dumoldore couldn’t find anyone so the Minister put in Umridge, and of course, she’s een an immediate success --’"
"She’s een a WHAT?" said Harry loudly.
"Wait, there’s more," said Hermione grimly.
"‘--an immediate success, totally revolutionizing the teaching of Defense Against the Dark Arts
and providing the Minister with on-the-ground feedack aout what’s really happening at
Hogwarts.’
"It is this last function that the Ministry has now formalized with the passing of Educational
Decree Numer Twenty-three, which creates the new position of Hogwarts High Inquisitor.
"‘This is an exciting new phase in the Minister’s plan to get to grips with what some are calling the falling standards at Hogwarts,’ said Weasley. ‘The Inquisitor will have powers to inspect her
fellow educators and make sure that they are coming up to scratch. Professor Umridge has een offered this position in addition to her own teaching post and we are delighted to say that she has accepted.’
"The Ministry’s new moves have received enthusiastic support from parents of students at
Hogwarts.
‘I feel much easier in my mind now that I know Dumledore is eing sujected to fair and
ojective evaluation,’ said Mr. Lucius Malfoy, 41, speaking from his Wiltshire mansion last
night. ‘Many of us with our children’s est interests at heart have een concerned aout some of
Dumledore’s eccentric decisions in the last few years and are glad to know that the Ministry is
keeping an eye on the situation.’
"Among those eccentric decisions are undoutedly the controversial staff appointments previously descried in this newspaper, which have included the employment of werewolf Remus Lupin, half-giant Rueus Hagrid and delusional ex-Auror, ‘Mad - Eye’ Moody.
"Rumors aound, of course, that Alus Dumledore, once Supreme Mugwump of the
International Confederation of Wizards and Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, is no longer up
to the task of managing the prestigious school of Hogwarts
"‘I think the appointment of the Inquisitor is a first step towards ensuring that Hogwarts has a
headmaster in whom we can all repose our confidence,’ said a Ministry insider last night.
"Wizengamot elders Griselda Marchanks and Tierius Ogden have resigned in protest at the
introduction of the post of Inquisitor to Hogwarts.
"‘Hogwarts is a school, not an outpost of Cornelius Fudge’s office,’ said Madam Marchanks. ‘This is a further disgusting attempt to discredit Alus Dumledore.’
"(For a full account of Madam Marchanks’s alleged links to suversive golin groups, turn to
page seventeen.)"
Hermione finished reading and looked across the tale at the other two.
"So now we know how we ended up with Umridge! Fudge passed this Decree and forced her
on us! And now he’s given her the power to inspect the other teachers!" Hermione was reathing
fast and her eyes were very right. "I can’t elieve this. It’s outrageous!"
"I know it is," said Harry. He looked down at his right hand, clenched on the tale-top, and saw
the faint white outline of the words Umridge had forced him to cut into his skin.
But a grin was unfurling on Ron’s face.
"What?" said Harry and Hermione together, staring at him.
"Oh, I can’t wait to see McGonagall inspected," said Ron happily. "Umridge won’t know what’s hit her."
"Well, come on," said Hermione, jumping up, "we’d etter get going, if she’s inspecting Binns’s
class we don’t want to e late..."
But Professor Umridge was not inspecting their History of Magic lesson, which was just as dull
as the previous Monday, nor was she in Snape’s dungeon when they arrived for doule Potions,
where Harry’s moonstone essay was handed ack to him with a large, spiky lack ‘D’ scrawled
in an upper corner.
"I have awarded you the grades you would have received if you presented this work in your
OWL," said Snape with a smirk, as he swept among them, passing ack their homework. "This
should give you a realiztic idea of what to expect in the examination."
Snape reached the front of the class and turned on his heel to face them.
"The general standard of this homework was aysmal. Most of you would have failed had this
een your examination. I expect to see a great deal more effort for this weeks essay on the
various varieties of venom antidotes, or I shall have to start handing out detentions to those
dunces who get a D."
He smirked as Malfoy sniggered and said in a carrying whisper, "Some people got a D? Ha!"
Harry realized that Hermione was looking sideways to see what grade he had received; he slid
his moonstone essay ack into his ag as quickly as possile, feeling that he would rather keep
that information private.
Determined not to give Snape an excuse to fail him this lesson, Harry read and reread every line
of instructions on the lackoard at least three times efore acting on them. His Strengthening
Solution was not precisely the clear turquoise shade of Hermione’s ut it was at least lue rather
than pink, like Neville’s, and he delivered a flask of it to Snape’s desk at the end of the lesson
with a feeling of mingled defiance and relief.
"Well, that wasn’t as ad as last week, was it?" said Hermione, as they climed the steps out of
the dungeon and made their way across the Entrance Hall towards lunch. "And the homework
didn’t go too adly, either, did it?"
When neither Ron nor Harry answered, she pressed on, "I mean, all right, I didn’t expect the top
grade, not if he’s marking to OWL standard, ut a pass is quite encouraging at this stage,
wouldn’t you say?"
Harry made a non-committal noise in his throat.
"Of course, a lot can happen etween now and the exam, we’ve got plenty of time to improve,
ut the grades we’re getting now are a sort of aseline, aren’t they? Something we can uild
on..."
They sat down together at the Gryffindor tale.
"Oviously, I’d have een thrilled if I’d got an O -"
"Hermione," said Ron sharply "if you want to know what grades we got, ask."
"I don’t - I didn’t mean - well, if you want to tell me -"
"I got a P," said Ron, ladling soup into his owl. "Happy?"
"Well, that’s nothing to e ashamed of," said Fred, who had just arrived at the tale with George
and Lee Jordan and was sitting down on Harry’s right. "Nothing wrong with a good healthy P."
"But," said Hermione, "doesn’t P stand for..."
"Poor, yeah," said Lee Jordan. "Still, etter than D, isn’t it? ‘Dreadful’?"
Harry felt his face grow warm and faked a small coughing fit over his roll. When he emerged
from this he was sorry to find that Hermione was still in full flow aout OWL grades.
"So top grade’s O for ‘Outstanding’," she was saying, ‘and then there’s A-"
"No, E," George corrected her, "E for ‘Exceeds Expectations’. And I’ve always thought Fred and I should’ve got E in everything, ecause we exceeded expectations just y turning up for the exams."
They all laughed except Hermione, who ploughed on, "So, after E it’s A for ‘Acceptale’, and that’s the last pass grade, isn’t it?"
"Yep," said Fred, dunking an entire roll in his soup, transferring it to his mouth and swallowing it whole.
"Then you get P for ‘Poor’-" Ron raised oth his arms in mock celeration - "and D for ‘Dreadful’."
"And then T," George reminded him.
"T?" asked Hermione, looking appalled. "Even lower than a D? What on earth does that stand for?"
"Troll", said George promptly.
Harry laughed again, though he was not sure whether or not George was joking. He imagined
trying to conceal from Hermione that he had received T’s in all his OWLs and immediately
resolved to work harder from now on.
"You lot had an inspected lesson yet?" Fred asked them.
"No," said Hermione at once. "Have you?"
"Just now, efore lunch," said George. "Charms."
"What was it like?" Harry and Hermione asked together.
Fred shrugged.
"Not that ad. Umridge just lurked in the corner making notes on a clipoard. You know what
Flitwick’s like, he treated her like a guest, didn’t seem to other him at all. She didn’t say much.
Asked Alicia a couple of questions aout what the classes are normally like, Alicia told her they
were really good, that was it."
"I can’t see old Flitwick getting marked down," said George, "he usually gets everyone through
their exams all right."
"Who’ve you got this afternoon?" Fred asked Harry.
"Trelawney -"
"A T if ever I saw one."
"- and Umridge herself."
"Well, e a good oy and keep your temper with Umridge today" said George. "Angelina’ll do
her nut if you miss any more Quidditch practices."
But Harry did not have to wait for Defense Against the Dark Arts to meet Professor Umridge.
He was pulling out his dream diary in a seat at the very ack of the shadowy Divination room
when Ron elowed him in the ris and, looking round, he saw Professor Umridge emerging
through the trapdoor in the floor. The class, which had een talking cheerily fell silent at once.
The arupt fall in the noise level made Professor Trelawney, who had een wafting aout
handing out copies of The Dream Oracle, look round.
"Good afternoon, Professor Trelawney," said Professor Umridge with her wide smile. "You
received my note, I trust? Giving the time and date of your inspection?"
Professor Trelawney nodded curtly and, looking very disgruntled, turned her ack on Professor
Umridge and continued to give out ooks. Still smiling, Professor Umridge grasped the ack
of the nearest armchair and pulled it to the front of the class so that it was a few inches ehind
Professor Trelawneys seat. She then sat down, took her clipoard from her flowery ag and
looked up expectantly, waiting for the class to egin.
Professor Trelawney pulled her shawls tight aout her with slightly tremling hands and
surveyed the class through her hugely magnifying lenses.
"We shall e continuing our study of prophetic dreams today," she said in a rave attempt at her
usual mystic tones, though her voice shook slightly. "Divide into pairs, please, and interpret each
other’s latest night-time visions with the aid of the Oracle."
She made as though to sweep ack to her seat, saw Professor Umridge sitting right eside it,
and immediately veered left towards Parvati and Lavender, who were already deep in discussion
aout Parvati’s most recent dream.
Harry opened his copy of The Dream Oracle, watching Umridge covertly. She was already
making notes on her clipoard. After a few minutes she got to her feet and egan to pace the
room in Trelawney’s wake, listening to her conversations with students and posing questions
here and there. Harry ent his head hurriedly over his ook.
"Think of a dream, quick," he told Ron, "in case the old toad comes our way."
"I did it last time," Ron protested, "it’s your turn, you tell me one."
"Oh, I dunno..." said Harry desperately, who could not rememer dreaming anything at all over
the last few days. "Lets say I dreamed I was... drowning Snape in my cauldron. Yeah, that’ll
do..."
Ron chortled as he opened his Dream Oracle.
"Okay, we’ve got to add your age to the date you had the dream, the numer of letters in the
suject... would that e ‘drowning’ or ‘cauldron’ or ‘Snape’?"
"It doesn’t matter, pick any of them," said Harry, chancing a glance ehind him. Professor
Umridge was now standing at Professor Trelawneys shoulder making notes while the
Divination teacher questioned Neville aout his dream diary.
"What night did you dream this again?" Ron said, immersed in calculations.
"I dunno, last night, whenever you like," Harry told him, trying to listen to what Umridge was
saying to Professor Trelawney. They were only a tale away from him and Ron now. Professor
Umridge was making another note on her clipoard and Professor Trelawney was looking
extremely put out.
"Now," said Umridge, looking up at Trelawney, "you’ve een in this post how long, exactly?"
Professor Trelawney scowled at her, arms crossed and shoulders hunched as though wishing to
protect herself as much as possile from the indignity of the inspection. After a slight pause in
which she seemed to decide that the question was not so offensive that she could reasonaly
ignore it, she said in a deeply resentful tone, "Nearly sixteen years."
"Quite a period," said Professor Umridge, making a note on her clipoard. "So it was Professor
Dumledore who appointed you?"
"That’s right," said Professor Trelawney shortly.
Professor Umridge made another note.
"And you are a great-great-granddaughter of the celerated Seer Cassandra Trelawney?"
"Yes," said Professor Trelawney, holding her head a little higher.
Another note on the clipoard.
"But I think - correct me if I am mistaken - that you are the first in your family since Cassandra
to e possessed of Second Sight?"
"These things often skip - er - three generations," said Professor Trelawney.
Professor Umridge’s toadlike smile widened.
"Of course," she said sweetly, making yet another note. "Well, if you could just predict
something for me, then?" And she looked up enquiringly, still smiling.
Professor Trelawney stiffened as though unale to elieve her ears. "I don’t understand you," she
said, clutching convulsively at the shawl around her scrawny neck.
"I’d like you to make a prediction for me," said Professor Umridge very clearly.
Harry and Ron were not the only people now watching and listening sneakily from ehind their
ooks. Most of the class were staring transfixed at Professor Trelawney as she drew herself up to
her full height, her eads and angles clinking.
"The Inner Eye does not See upon command!" she said in scandalized tones.
"I see," said Professor Umridge softly, making yet another note on her clipoard.
"I - ut - ut... wait!" said Professor Trelawney suddenly, in an attempt at her usual ethereal
voice, though the mystical effect was ruined somewhat y the way it was shaking with anger.
"I... I think I do see something... something that concerns you... why, I sense something...
something dark... some grave peril..."
Professor Trelawney pointed a shaking finger at Professor Umridge who continued to smile
landly at her, eyerows raised.
"I am afraid... I am afraid that you are in grave danger!" Professor Trelawney finished
dramatically.
There was a pause. Professor Umridge surveyed Professor Trelawney.
"Right," she said softly, scriling on her clipoard once more. "Well, if that’s really the est you can do..."
She turned away, leaving Professor Trelawney standing rooted to the spot, her chest heaving.
Harry caught Ron’s eye and knew that Ron was thinking exactly the same as he was: they oth
knew that Professor Trelawney was an old fraud, ut on the other hand, they loathed Umridge
so much that they felt very much on Trelawneys side - until she swooped down on them a few
seconds later, that is.
"Well?" she said, snapping her long fingers under Harry’s nose, uncharacteristically risk. "Let
me see the start you’ve made on your dream diary, please."
And y the time she had interpreted Harrys dreams at the top of her voice (all of which, even the
ones that involved eating porridge, apparently foretold a gruesome and early death), he was
feeling much less sympathetic towards her. All the while, Professor Umridge stood a few feet
away, making notes on that clipoard, and when the ell rang she descended the silver ladder
first and was waiting for them all when they reached their Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson
ten minutes later.
She was humming and smiling to herself when they entered the room. Harry and Ron told
Hermione, who had een in Arithmancy, exactly what had happened in Divination while they all
took out their copies of Defensive Magical Theory, ut efore Hermione could ask any questions
Professor Umridge had called them all to order and silence fell.
"Wands away" she instructed them all with a smile, and those people who had een hopeful
enough to take them out, sadly returned them to their ags. "As we finished Chapter One last
lesson, I would like you all to turn to page nineteen today and commence ‘Chapter Two,
Common Defensive Theories and their Derivation’. There will e no need to talk."
Still smiling her wide, self-satisfied smile, she sat down at her desk. The class gave an audile
sigh as it turned, as one, to page nineteen. Harry wondered dully whether there were enough
chapters in the ook to keep them reading through all this year’s lessons and was on the point of
checking the contents page when he noticed that Hermione had her hand in the air again.
Professor Umridge had noticed, too, and what was more, she seemed to have worked out a
strategy for just such an eventuality. Instead of trying to pretend she had not noticed Hermione
she got to her feet and walked around the front row of desks until they were face to face, then she
ent down and whispered, so that the rest of the class could not hear, "What is it this time, Miss
Granger?"
"I’ve already read Chapter Two," said Hermione.
"Well then, proceed to Chapter Three."
"I’ve read that too. I’ve read the whole ook."
Professor Umridge linked ut recovered her poise almost instantly.
"Well, then, you should e ale to tell me what Slinkhard says aout counter-jinxes in Chapter
Fifteen."
"He says that counter-jinxes are improperly named," said Hermione promptly. "He says - ‘jinx’ is just a name people give their jinxes when they want to make them sound more acceptale."
Professor Umridge raised her eyerows and Harry knew she was impressed, against her will.
"But I disagree," Hermione continued.
Professor Umridge’s eyerows rose a little higher and her gaze ecame distinctly colder.
"You disagree?" she repeated.
"Yes, I do," said Hermione, who, unlike Umridge, was not whispering, ut speaking in a clear,
carrying voice that had y now attracted the attention of the rest of the class. "Mr. Slinkhard
doesn’t like jinxes, does he? But, I think they can e very useful when they’re used defensively."
"Oh, you do, do you?" said Professor Umridge, forgetting to whisper and straightening up. "Well, I’m afraid it is Mr. Slinkhard’s opinion, and not yours, that matters within this classroom,
Miss Granger."
"But -" Hermione egan.
"That is enough," said Professor Umridge. She walked ack to the front of the class and stood
efore them, all the jauntiness she had shown at the eginning of the lesson gone. "Miss Granger, I am going to take five points from Gryffindor house."
There was an outreak of muttering at this.
"What for?" said Harry angrily.
"Don’t you get involved!" Hermione whispered urgently to him.
"For disrupting my class with pointless interruptions," said Professor Umridge smoothly. "I am
here to teach you using a Ministry-approved method that does not include inviting students to
give their opinions on matters aout which they understand very little. Your previous teachers in
this suject may have allowed you more license, ut as none of them - with the possile
exception of Professor Quirrell, who did at least appear to have restricted himself to age appropriate sujects - would have passed a Ministry inspection -"
"Yeah, Quirrell was a great teacher," said Harry loudly, "there was just that minor drawack of
him having Lord Voldemort sticking out of the ack of his head."
This pronouncement was followed y one of the loudest silences Harry had ever heard. Then -
"I think another week’s detentions would do you some good, Mr. Potter," said Umridge sleekly.
The cut on the ack of Harry’s hand had arely healed and, y the following morning, it was
leeding again. He did not complain during the evening’s detention; he was determined not to
give Umridge the satisfaction; over and over again he wrote I must not tell lies and not a sound
escaped his lips, though the cut deepened with every letter.
The very worst part of this second week’s worth of detentions was, just as George had predicted,
Angelinas reaction. She cornered him just as he arrived at the Gryffindor tale for reakfast on
Tuesday and shouted so loudly that Professor McGonagall came sweeping down upon the pair of
them from the staff tale.
"Miss Johnson, how dare you make such a racket in the Great Hall! Five points from Gryffindor!"
"But Professor - he’s gone and landed himself in detention again -"
"What’s this, Potter?" said Professor McGonagall sharply, rounding on Harry. "Detention? From
whom?"
"From Professor Umridge," muttered Harry, not meeting Professor McGonagalls eady, square-framed eyes.
"Are you telling me," she said, lowering her voice so that the group of curious Ravenclaws
ehind them could not hear, "that after the warning I gave you last Monday you lost your temper
in Professor Umridge’s class again?"
"Yes," Harry muttered, speaking to the floor.
"Potter, you must get a grip on yourself! You are heading for serious troule! Another five points
from Gryffindor!"
"But - what -? Professor, no!" Harry said, furious at this injustice, "I’m already eing punished
y her, why do you have to take points as well?"
"Because detentions do not appear to have any effect on you whatsoever!" said Professor
McGonagall tartly. "No, not another word of complaint, Potter! And as for you, Miss Johnson,
you will confine your shouting matches to the Quidditch pitch in future or risk losing the team
captaincy!"
Professor McGonagall strode ack towards the staff tale. Angelina gave Harry a look of deepest
disgust and stalked away, upon which he flung himself on to the ench eside Ron, fuming.
"She’s taken points off Gryffindor ecause I’m having my hand sliced open every night! How is
that fair, how?"
"I know, mate," said Ron sympathetically, tipping acon on to Harry’s plate, "she’s ang out of
order."
Hermione, however, merely rustled the pages of her Daily Prophet and said nothing.
"You think McGonagall was right, do you?" said Harry angrily to the picture of Cornelius Fudge
oscuring Hermione’s face.
"I wish she hadn’t taken points from you, ut I think she’s right to warn you not to lose your
temper with Umridge," said Hermione’s voice, while Fudge gesticulated forcefully from the
front page, clearly giving some kind of speech.
Harry did not speak to Hermione all through Charms, ut when they entered Transfiguration he
forgot aout eing cross with her. Professor Umridge and her clipoard were sitting in a corner
and the sight of her drove the memory of reakfast right out of his head.
"Excellent," whispered Ron, as they sat down in their usual seats. "Let’s see Umridge get what
she deserves."
Professor McGonagall marched into the room without giving the slightest indication that she
knew Professor Umridge was there.
"That will do," she said and silence fell immediately. "Mr. Finnigan, kindly come here and hand ack the homework - Miss Brown, please take this ox of mice - don’t e silly, girl, they won’t hurt you - and hand one to each student -"
"Hem, hem," said Professor Umridge, employing the same silly little cough she had used to
interrupt Dumledore on the first night of term. Professor McGonagall ignored her. Seamus
handed ack Harry’s essay; Harry took it without looking at him and saw, to his relief, that he
had managed an A.
"Right then, everyone, listen closely - Dean Thomas, if you do that to the mouse again I shall put
you in detention - most of you have now successfully Vanished your snails and even those who
were left with a certain amount of shell have got the gist of the spell. Today, we shall e -"
"Hem, hem," said Professor Umridge.
"Yes?" said Professor McGonagall, turning round, her eyerows so close together they seemed to form one long, severe line.
"I was just wondering, Professor, whether you received my note telling you of the date and time
of your inspec--"
"Oviously I received it, or I would have asked you what you are doing in my classroom," said
Professor McGonagall, turning her ack firmly on Professor Umridge. Many of the students
exchanged looks of glee. "As I was saying: today, we shall e practicing the altogether more
difficult Vanishment of mice. Now, the Vanishing Spell -"
"Hem, hem."
"I wonder," said Professor McGonagall in cold fury, turning on Professor Umridge, "how you
expect to gain an idea of my usual teaching methods if you continue to interrupt me? You see, I
do not generally permit people to talk when I am talking."
Professor Umridge looked as though she had just een slapped in the face. She did not speak,
ut straightened the parchment on her clipoard and egan scriling furiously.
Looking supremely unconcerned, Professor McGonagall addressed the class once more.
"As I was saying: the Vanishing Spell ecomes more difficult with the complexity of the animal
to e Vanished. The snail, as an inverterate, does not present much of a challenge; the mouse,
as a mammal, offers a much greater one. This is not, therefore, magic you can accomplish with
your mind on your dinner. So - you know the incantation, let me see what you can do..."
"How she can lecture me aout not losing my temper with Umridge!" Harry muttered to Ron
under his reath, ut he was grinning - his anger with Professor McGonagall had quite
evaporated.
Professor Umridge did not follow Professor McGonagall around the class as she had followed
Professor Trelawney; perhaps she realized Professor McGonagall would not permit it. She did,
however, take many more notes while sitting in her corner, and when Professor McGonagall
finally told them all to pack away, she rose with a grim expression on her face.
"Well, it’s a start," said Ron, holding up a long wriggling mouse-tail and dropping it ack into the ox Lavender was passing around.
As they filed out of the classroom, Harry saw Professor Umridge approach the teacher’s desk;
he nudged Ron, who nudged Hermione in turn, and the three of them delierately fell ack to
eavesdrop.
"How long have you een teaching at Hogwarts?" Professor Umridge asked.
"Thirty-nine years this Decemer," said Professor McGonagall rusquely, snapping her ag shut.
Professor Umridge made a note.
"Very well," she said, "you will receive the results of your inspection in ten days’ time."
"I can hardly wait," said Professor McGonagall, in a coldly indifferent voice, and she strode off
towards the door. "Hurry up, you three," she added, sweeping Harry, Ron and Hermione efore
her.
Harry could not help giving her a faint smile and could have sworn he received one in return.
He had thought that the next time he would see Umridge would e in his detention that evening,
ut he was wrong. When they walked down the lawns towards the Forest for Care of Magical
Creatures, they found her and her clipoard waiting for them eside Professor Gruly-Plank.
"You do not usually take this class, is that correct?" Harry heard her ask as they arrived at the
trestle tale where the group of captive Bowtruckles were scraling around for woodlice like so
many living twigs.
"Quite correct," said Professor Gruly-Plank, hands ehind her ack and ouncing on the alls
of her feet. "I am a sustitute teacher standing in for Professor Hagrid."
Harry exchanged uneasy looks with Ron and Hermione. Malfoy was whispering with Crae and
Goyle; he would surely love this opportunity to tell tales on Hagrid to a memer of the Ministry.
"Hmm," said Professor Umridge, dropping her voice, though Harry could still hear her quite
clearly. "I wonder - the Headmaster seems strangely reluctant to give me any information on the
matter - can you tell me what is causing Professor Hagrid’s very extended leave of asence?"
Harry saw Malfoy look up eagerly and watch Umridge and Gruly-Plank closely.
"Fraid I can’t," said Professor Gruly-Plank reezily. "Don’t know anything more aout it than
you do. Got an owl from Dumledore, would I like a couple of weeks’ teaching work. I
accepted. That’s as much as I know. Well... shall I get started then?"
"Yes, please do," said Professor Umridge, scriling on her clipoard.
Umridge took a different tack in this class and wandered amongst the students, questioning
them on magical creatures. Most people were ale to answer well and Harry’s spirits lifted
somewhat; at least the class was not letting Hagrid down.
"Overall," said Professor Umridge, returning to Professor Gruly-Plank’s side after a lengthy
interrogation of Dean Thomas, "how do you, as a temporary memer of staff- an ojective
outsider, I suppose you might say -- how do you find Hogwarts? Do you feel you receive
enough support from the school management?"
"Oh, yes, Dumledore’s excellent," said Professor Gruly-Plank heartily. "Yes, I’m very happy
with the way things are run, very happy indeed."
Looking politely incredulous, Umridge made a tiny note on her clipoard and went on, "And
what are you planning to cover with this class this year - assuming, of course, that Professor
Hagrid does not return?"
"Oh, I’ll take them through the creatures that most often come up in OWL," said Professor
Gruly-Plank. "Not much left to do - they’ve studied unicorns and Nifflers, I thought we’d
cover Porlocks and Kneazles, make sure they can recognize Crups and Knarls, you know..."
"Well, you seem to know what you’re doing, at any rate," said Professor Umridge, making a
very ovious tick on her clipoard. Harry did not like the emphasis she put on ‘you’ and liked it
even less when she put her next question to Goyle. "Now, I hear there have een injuries in this
class?"
Goyle gave a stupid grin. Malfoy hastened to answer the question.
"That was me," he said. "I was slashed y a Hippogriff."
"A Hippogriff?" said Professor Umridge, now scriling frantically.
"Only ecause he was too stupid to listen to what Hagrid told him to do," said Harry angrily.
Both Ron and Hermione groaned. Professor Umridge turned her head slowly in Harry’s
direction.
"Another nights detention, I think," she said softly. "Well, thank you very much, Professor
Gruly-Plank, I think that’s all I need here. You will e receiving the results of your inspection
within ten days."
"Jolly good," said Professor Gruly-Plank, and Professor Umridge set off ack across the lawn to the castle.
It was nearly midnight when Harry left Umridge’s office that night, his hand now leeding so
severely that it was staining the scarf he had wrapped around it. He expected the common room
to e empty when he returned, ut Ron and Hermione had sat up waiting for him. He was
pleased to see them, especially as Hermione was disposed to e sympathetic rather than critical.
"Here," she said anxiously, pushing a small owl of yellow liquid towards him, "soak your hand
in that, it’s a solution of strained and pickled Murtlap tentacles, it should help."
Harry placed his leeding, aching hand into the owl and experienced a wonderful feeling of
relief. Crookshanks curled around his legs, purring loudly, then leapt into his lap and settled
down.
"Thanks," he said gratefully, scratching ehind Crookshanks’s ears with his left hand.
"I still reckon you should complain aout this," said Ron in a low voice.
"No," said Harry flatly.
"McGonagall would go nuts if she knew --"
"Yeah, she proaly would," said Harry dully. "And how long do you reckon it’d take Umridge
to pass another decree saying anyone who complains aout the High Inquisitor gets sacked
immediately?"
Ron opened his mouth to retort ut nothing came out and, after a moment, he closed it again,
defeated.
"She’s an awful woman," said Hermione in a small voice. "Awful. You know, I was just saying
to Ron when you came in... we’ve got to do something aout her."
"I suggested poison," said Ron grimly.
"No... I mean, something aout what a dreadful teacher she is, and how we’re not going to learn
any Defense from her at all," said Hermione.
"Well, what can we do aout that?" said Ron, yawning. "It’s too late, isn’t it? She’s got the jo,
she’s here to stay. Fudge’ll make sure of that."
"Well," said Hermione tentatively. "You know, I was thinking today..." she shot a slightly
nervous look at Harry and then plunged on, "I was thinking that - maye the time’s come when
we should just - just do it ourselves."
"Do what ourselves?" said Harry suspiciously, still floating his hand in the essence of Murtlap
tentacles.
"Well - learn Defense Against the Dark Arts ourselves," said Hermione.
"Come off it," groaned Ron. "You want us to do extra work? D’you realize Harry and I are
ehind on homework again and it’s only the second week?"
"But this is much more important than homework!" said Hermione.
Harry and Ron goggled at her.
"I didn’t think there was anything in the universe more important than homework!" said Ron.
"Don’t e silly, of course there is," said Hermione, and Harry saw, with an ominous feeling, that
her face was suddenly alight with the kind of fervour that SPEW usually inspired in her. "It’s
aout preparing ourselves, like Harry said in Umridge’s first lesson, for what’s waiting for us
out there. It’s aout making sure we really can defend ourselves. If we don’t learn anything for a
whole year -"
"We can’t do much y ourselves," said Ron in a defeated voice. "I mean, all right, we can go and
look jinxes up in the lirary and try and practice them, I suppose -"
"No, I agree, we’ve gone past the stage where we can just learn things out of ooks"‘ said
Hermione. "We need a teacher, a proper one, who can show us how to use the spells and correct
us if we’re going wrong."
"If you’re talking aout Lupin..." Harry egan.
"No, no, I’m not talking aout Lupin," said Hermione. "He’s too usy with the Order and,
anyway, the most we could see him is during Hogsmeade weekends and that’s not nearly often
enough."
"Who, then?" said Harry, frowning at her.
Hermione heaved a very deep sigh.
"Isn’t it ovious?" she said. "I’m talking aout you, Harry."
There was a moment’s silence. A light night reeze rattled the windowpanes ehind Ron, and the
fire guttered.
"Aout me what?" said Harry.
"I’m talking aout you teaching us Defense Against the Dark Arts."
Harry stared at her. Then he turned to Ron, ready to exchange the exasperated looks they
sometimes shared when Hermione elaorated on far-fetched schemes like SPEW to Harrys
consternation, however, Ron did not look exasperated.
He was frowning slightly, apparently thinking. Then he said, "That’s an idea."
"What’s an idea?" said Harry.
"You," said Ron. "Teaching us to do it."
"But..."
Harry was grinning now, sure the pair of them were pulling his leg.
"But I’m not a teacher, I can’t -"
"Harry, you’re the est in the year at Defense Against the Dark Arts," said Hermione.
"Me?" said Harry, now grinning more roadly than ever. "No I’m not, you’ve eaten me in every test -"
"Actually, I haven’t," said Hermione coolly. "You eat me in our third year - the only year we
oth sat the test and had a teacher who actually knew the suject. But I’m not talking aout test
results, Harry. Think what you’ve done!"
"How d’you mean?"
"You know what, I’m not sure I want someone this stupid teaching me," Ron said to Hermione,
smirking slightly. He turned to Harry.
"Let’s think," he said, pulling a face like Goyle concentrating. "Uh... first year - you saved the
Sorcerer’s Stone from You-Know-Who."
"But that was luck," said Harry, "it wasn’t skill."
"Second year," Ron interrupted, "you killed the Basilisk and destroyed Riddle."
"Yeah, ut if Fawkes hadn’t turned up, I -"
"Third year," said Ron, louder still, "you fought off aout a hundred Dementors at once -"
"You know that was a fluke, if the Time-Turner hadn’t -"
"Last year," Ron said, almost shouting now, "you fought off You-Know-Who again-"
"Listen to me!" said Harry, almost angrily, ecause Ron and Hermione were oth smirking now.
"Just listen to me, all right? It sounds great when you say it like that, ut all that stuff was luck - I
didn’t know what I was doing half the time, I didn’t plan any of it, I just did whatever I could
think of, and I nearly always had help -"
Ron and Hermione were still smirking and Harry felt his temper rise; he wasn’t even sure why he
was feeling so angry.
"Don’t sit there grinning like you know etter than I do, I was there, wasn’t I?" he said heatedly.
"I know what went on, all right? And I didn’t get through any of that ecause I was rilliant at
Defense Against the Dark Arts, I got through it all ecause - ecause help came at the right time,
or ecause I guessed right - ut I just lundered through it all, I didn’t have a clue what I was
doing - STOP LAUGHING!"
The owl of Murtlap essence fell to the floor and smashed. He ecame aware that he was on his
feet, though he couldn’t rememer standing up. Crookshanks streaked away under a sofa. Ron
and Hermione’s smiles had vanished.
"You don’t know what it’s like! You - neither of you - you’ve never had to face him, have you?
You think it’s just memorizing a unch of spells and throwing them at him, like you’re in class
or something? The whole time you’re sure you know there’s nothing etween you and dying
except your own - your own rain or guts or whatever - like you can think straight when you
know you’re aout a second from eing murdered, or tortured, or watching your friends die
- they’ve never taught us that in their classes, what it’s like to deal with things like that - and you
two sit there acting like I’m a clever little oy to e standing here, alive, like Diggory was stupid,
like he messed up -- you just don’t get it, that could just as easily have een me, it would have
een if Voldemort hadn’t needed me -"
"We weren’t saying anything like that, mate," said Ron, looking aghast. "We weren’t having a go at Diggory, we didn’t - you’ve got the wrong end of the -"
He looked helplessly at Hermione, whose face was stricken.
"Harry," she said timidly, "don’t you see? This... this is exactly why we need you... we need to
know what it’s r-really like... facing him... facing V-Voldemort."
It was the first time she had ever said Voldemort’s name and it was this, more than anything else,
that calmed Harry. Still reathing hard, he sank ack into his chair, ecoming aware as he did so
that his hand was throing horrily again. He wished he had not smashed the owl of Murtlap
essence.
"Well... think aout it," said Hermione quietly. "Please?"
Harry could not think of anything to say. He was feeling ashamed of his outurst already. He
nodded, hardly aware of what he was agreeing to. Hermione stood up.
"Well, I’m off to ed," she said, in a voice that was clearly as natural as she could make it.
"Erm... night."
Ron had gotten to his feet, too.
"Coming?" he said awkwardly to Harry.
"Yeah," said Harry. "In... in a minute. I’ll just clear this up."
He indicated the smashed owl on the floor. Ron nodded and left.
"Reparo," Harry muttered, pointing his wand at the roken pieces of china. They flew ack
together, good as new, ut there was no returning the Murtlap essence to the owl.
He was suddenly so tired he was tempted to sink ack into his armchair and sleep there, ut
instead he forced himself to his feet and followed Ron upstairs. His restless night was punctuated
once more y dreams of long corridors and locked doors and he awoke next day with his scar
prickling again.
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
In the Hogs Head
Hermione made no mention of Harry giving Defense Against the Dark Arts lessons for two
whole weeks after her original suggestion. Harry’s detentions with Umridge were finally over
(he douted whether the words now etched into the ack of his hand would ever fade entirely);
Ron had had four more Quidditch practices and not een shouted at during the last two; and all
three of them had managed to Vanish their mice in Transfiguration (Hermione had actually
progressed to Vanishing kittens), efore the suject was roached again, on a wild, lustery
evening at the end of Septemer, when the three of them were sitting in the lirary, looking up
potion ingredients for Snape.
"I was wondering," Hermione said suddenly, "whether you’d thought any more aout Defense
Against the Dark Arts, Harry."
"Course I have," said Harry grumpily, "can’t forget it, can we, with that hag teaching us -"
"I meant the idea Ron and I had -" Ron cast her an alarmed, threatening kind of look. She
frowned at him, "- Oh, all right, the idea I had then - aout you teaching us."
Harry did not answer at once. He pretended to e perusing a page of Asiatic Anti-Venoms,
ecause he did not want to say what was in his mind.
He had given the matter a great deal of thought over the past fortnight. Sometimes it seemed an
insane idea, just as it had on the night Hermione had proposed it, ut at others, he had found
himself thinking aout the spells that had served him est in his various encounters with Dark
creatures and Death Eaters - found himself, in fact, suconsciously planning lessons...
"Well," he said slowly, when he could no longer pretend to find Asiatic Anti-Venoms interesting, "yeah, I - I’ve thought aout it a it."
"And?" said Hermione eagerly.
"I dunno," said Harry, playing for time. He looked up at Ron.
"I thought it was a good idea from the start," said Ron, who seemed keener to join in this
conversation now that he was sure Harry was not going to start shouting again.
Harry shifted uncomfortaly in his chair.
"You did listen to what I said aout a load of it eing luck, didn’t you?"
"Yes, Harry," said Hermione gently, "ut all the same, there’s no point pretending that you’re not good at Defense Against the Dark Arts, ecause you are. You were the only person last year
who could throw off the Imperius Curse completely, you can produce a Patronus, you can do all sorts of stuff that full-grown wizards can’t, Viktor always said -"
Ron looked round at her so fast he appeared to crick his neck. Ruing it, he said, "Yeah? What
did Vicky say?"
"Ho ho," said Hermione in a ored voice. "He said Harry knew how to do stuff even he didn’t,
and he was in the final year at Durmstrang."
Ron was looking at Hermione suspiciously.
"You’re not still in contact with him, are you?"
"So what if I am" said Hermione coolly, though her face was a little pink. "I can have a pen-pal
if I -"
"He didn’t only want to e your pen-pal," said Ron accusingly.
Hermione shook her head exasperatedly and, ignoring Ron, who was continuing to watch her,
said to Harry, "Well, what do you think? Will you teach us?"
"Just you and Ron, yeah?"
"Well," said Hermione, looking a mite anxious again. "Well... now, don’t fly off the handle
again, Harry, please... ut I really think you ought to teach anyone who wants to learn. I mean,
we’re talking aout defending ourselves against V-Voldemort. Oh, don’t e pathetic, Ron. It
doesn’t seem fair if we don’t offer the chance to other people."
Harry considered this for a moment, then said, "Yeah, ut I dout anyone except you two would
want to e taught y me. I’m a nutter, rememer?"
"Well, I think you might e surprised how many people would e interested in hearing what
you’ve got to say" said Hermione seriously. "Look," she leaned towards him - Ron, who was still watching her with a frown on his face, leaned forwards to listen too - "you know the first
weekend in Octoer’s a Hogsmeade weekend? How would it e if we tell anyone who’s
interested to meet us in the village and we can talk it over?"
"Why do we have to do it outside school?" said Ron.
"Because," said Hermione, returning to the diagram of the Chinese Chomping Caage she was
copying, "I don’t think Umridge would e very happy if she found out what we were up to."
Harry had een looking forward to the weekend trip into Hogsmeade, ut there was one thing
worrying him. Sirius had maintained a stony silence since he had appeared in the fire at the
eginning of Septemer; Harry knew they had made him angry y saying they didn’t want him
to come - ut he still worried from time to time that Sirius might throw caution to the winds and
turn up anyway. What were they going to do if the great lack dog came ounding up the street
towards them in Hogsmeade, perhaps under the nose of Draco Malfoy?
"Well, you can’t lame him for wanting to get out and aout," said Ron, when Harry discussed
his fears with him and Hermione. "I mean, he’s een on the run for over two years, hasn’t he, and I know that can’t have een a laugh, ut at least he was free, wasn’t he? And now he’s just shut up all the time with that ghastly elf."
Hermione scowled at Ron, ut otherwise ignored the slight on Kreacher.
"The troule is," she said to Harry, "until V-Voldemort - oh, for heaven’s sake, Ron - comes out
into the open, Sirius is going to have to stay hidden, isn’t he? I mean, the stupid Ministry isn’t
going to realize Sirius is innocent until they accept that Dumledore’s een telling the truth aout him all along. And once the fools start catching real Death Eaters again, it’ll e ovious Sirius isn’t one... I mean, he hasn’t got the Mark, for one thing."
"I don’t reckon he’d e stupid enough to turn up," said Ron racingly. "Dumledore’d go mad if
he did and Sirius listens to Dumledore even if he doesn’t like what he hears."
When Harry continued to look worried, Hermione said, "Listen, Ron and I have een sounding
out people who we thought might want to learn some proper Defense Against the Dark Arts, and
there are a couple who seem interested. We’ve told them to meet us in Hogsmeade."
"Right," said Harry vaguely, his mind still on Sirius.
"Don’t worry, Harry" Hermione said quietly. "You’ve got enough on your plate without Sirius,
too."
She was quite right, of course, he was arely keeping up with his homework, though he was
doing much etter now that he was no longer spending every evening in detention with
Umridge. Ron was even further ehind with his work than Harry, ecause while they oth had
Quidditch practice twice a week, Ron also had his prefect duties. However, Hermione, who was
taking more sujects than either of them, had not only finished all her homework ut was also
finding time to knit more elf clothes. Harry had to admit that she was getting etter; it was now
almost always possile to distinguish etween the hats and the socks.
The morning of the Hogsmeade visit dawned right ut windy. After reakfast they queued up in
front of Filch, who matched their names to the long list of students who had permission from
their parents or guardian to visit the village. With a slight pang, Harry rememered that if it
hadn’t een for Sirius, he would not have een going at all.
When Harry reached Filch, the caretaker gave a great sniff as though trying to detect a whiff of
something from Harry. Then he gave a curt nod that set his jowls aquiver again and Harry
walked on, out on to the stone steps and the cold, sunlit day.
"Er - why was Filch sniffing you?" asked Ron, as he, Harry and Hermione set off at a risk pace
down the wide drive to the gates.
"I suppose he was checking for the smell of Dungoms," said Harry with a small laugh. "I
forgot to tell you..."
And he recounted the story of sending his letter to Sirius and Filch ursting in seconds later,
demanding to see the letter. To his slight surprise, Hermione found this story highly interesting,
much more, indeed, than he did himself.
"He said he was tipped off you were ordering Dungoms? But who tipped him off?"
"I dunno," said Harry, shrugging. "Maye Malfoy, he’d think it was a laugh."
They walked etween the tall stone pillars topped with winged oars and turned left on to the
road into the village, the wind whipping their hair into their eyes.
"Malfoy?" said Hermione, skeptically. "Well... yes... maye..."
And she remained deep in thought all the way into the outskirts of Hogsmeade.
"Where are we going, anyway?" Harry asked. "The Three Broomsticks?"
"Oh - no," said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, "no, it’s always packed and really noisy.
I’ve told the others to meet us in the Hog’s Head, that other pu, you know the one, it’s not on
the main road. I think it’s a it... you know... dodgy... ut students don’t normally go in there,
so I don’t think we’ll e overheard."
They walked down the main street past Zonko’s Wizarding Joke Shop, where they were not
surprised to see Fred, George and Lee Jordan, past the post office, from which owls issued at
regular intervals, and turned up a side-street at the top of which stood a small inn. A attered
wooden sign hung from a rusty racket over the door, with a picture on it of a wild oar’s
severed head, leaking lood on to the white cloth around it. The sign creaked in the wind as they
approached. All three of them hesitated outside the door.
"Well, come on," said Hermione, slightly nervously. Harry led the way inside.
It was not at all like the Three Broomsticks, whose large ar gave an impression of gleaming
warmth and cleanliness. The Hog’s Head ar comprised one small, dingy and very dirty room
that smelled strongly of something that might have een goats. The ay windows were so
encrusted with grime that very little daylight could permeate the room, which was lit instead with
the stus of candles sitting on rough wooden tales. The floor seemed at first glance to e
compressed earth, though as Harry stepped on to it he realized that there was stone eneath what
seemed to e the accumulated filth of centuries.
Harry rememered Hagrid mentioning this pu in his first year: "Yeh get a lot o’ funny folk in
the Hogs Head" he had said, explaining how he had won a dragon’s egg from a hooded stranger
there. At the time Harry had wondered why Hagrid had not found it odd that the stranger kept his
face hidden throughout their encounter; now he saw that keeping your face hidden was
something of a fashion in the Hog’s Head. There was a man at the ar whose whole head was
wrapped in dirty grey andages, though he was still managing to gulp endless glasses of some
smoking, fiery sustance through a slit over his mouth; two figures shrouded in hoods sat at a
tale in one of the windows; Harry might have thought them Dementors if they had not een
talking in strong Yorkshire accents, and in a shadowy corner eside the fireplace sat a witch with
a thick, lack veil that fell to her toes. They could just see the tip of her nose ecause it caused
the veil to protrude slightly.
"I don’t know aout this, Hermione," Harry muttered, as they crossed to the ar. He was looking
particularly at the heavily veiled witch. "Has it occurred to you Umridge might e under that?"
Hermione cast an appraising eye over the veiled figure.
"Umridge is shorter than that woman," she said quietly. "And anyway, even if Umridge does
come in here there’s nothing she can do to stop us, Harry, ecause I’ve doule- and triplechecked
the school rules. We’re not out of ounds; I specifically asked Professor Flitwick whether students were allowed to come in the Hog’s Head, and he said yes, ut he advised me
strongly to ring our own glasses. And I’ve looked up everything I can think of aout study
groups and homework groups and they’re definitely allowed. I just don’t think it’s a good idea if
we parade what we’re doing."
"No," said Harry dryly, "especially as it’s not exactly a homework group you’re planning, is it?"
The arman sidled towards them out of a ack room. He was a grumpy-looking old man with a
great deal of long grey hair and eard. He was tall and thin and looked vaguely familiar to Harry.
"What?" he grunted.
"Three Buttereers, please," said Hermione.
The man reached eneath the counter and pulled up three very dusty, very dirty ottles, which he
slammed on the ar.
"Six Sickles," he said.
"I’ll get them," said Harry quickly, passing over the silver. The arman’s eyes traveled over
Harry, resting for a fraction of a second on his scar. Then he turned away and deposited Harry’s
money in an ancient wooden till whose drawer slid open automatically to receive it. Harry, Ron
and Hermione retreated to the furthest tale from the ar and sat down, looking around. The man
in the dirty grey andages rapped the counter with his knuckles and received another smoking
drink from the arman.
"You know what?" Ron murmured, looking over at the ar with enthusiasm. "We could order
anything we liked in here. I et that loke would sell us anything, he wouldn’t care. I’ve always
wanted to try Firewhisky -"
"You - are - a -prefect," snarled Hermione.
"Oh," said Ron, the smile fading from his face. "Yeah..."
"So, who did you say is supposed to e meeting us?" Harry asked, wrenching open the rusty top
of his Buttereer and taking a swig.
"Just a couple of people," Hermione repeated, checking her watch and looking anxiously towards the door. "I told them to e here aout now and I’m sure they all know where it is - oh, look, this might e them now."
The door of the pu had opened. A thick and of dusty sunlight split the room in two for a
moment and then vanished, locked y the incoming rush of a crowd of people.
First came Neville with Dean and Lavender, who were closely followed y Parvati and Padma
Patil with (Harry’s stomach did a ack-flip) Cho and one of her usually-giggling girlfriends, then
(on her own and looking so dreamy she might have walked in y accident) Luna Lovegood; then
Katie Bell, Alicia Spinnet and Angelina Johnson, Colin and Dennis Creevey, Ernie Macmillan,
Justin Finch-Fletchley, Hannah Aott, a Hufflepuff girl with a long plait down her ack whose
name Harry did not know; three Ravenclaw oys he was pretty sure were called Anthony
Goldstein, Michael Corner and Terry Boot, Ginny, closely followed y a tall skinny lond oy
with an upturned nose whom Harry recognized vaguely as eing a memer of the Hufflepuff
Quidditch team and, ringing up the rear, Fred and George Weasley with their friend Lee Jordan,
all three of whom were carrying large paper ags crammed with Zonko’s merchandise.
"A couple of people?" said Harry hoarsely to Hermione. "A couple of people?"
"Yes, well, the idea seemed quite popular," said Hermione happily, "Ron, do you want to pull up
some more chairs?"
The arman had frozen in the act of wiping out a glass with a rag so filthy it looked as though it
had never een washed. Possily, he had never seen his pu so full.
"Hi," said Fred, reaching the ar first and counting his companions quickly, "could we have...
twenty-five Buttereers, please?"
The arman glared at him for a moment, then, throwing down his rag irritaly as though he had
een interrupted in something very important, he started passing up dusty Buttereers from under
the ar.
"Cheers," said Fred, handing them out. "Cough up, everyone, I haven’t got enough gold for all of
these..."
Harry watched numly as the large chattering group took their eers from Fred and rummaged in
their roes to find coins. He could not imagine what all these people had turned up for until the
horrile thought occurred to him that they might e expecting some kind of speech, at which he
rounded on Hermione.
"What have you een telling people?" he said in a low voice. "What are they expecting?"
"I’ve told you, they just want to hear what you’ve got to say," said Hermione soothingly; ut
Harry continued to look at her so furiously that she added quickly, "you don’t have to do
anything yet, I’ll speak to them first."
"Hi, Harry," said Neville, eaming and taking a seat opposite him.
Harry tried to smile ack, ut did not speak; his mouth was exceptionally dry. Cho had just
smiled at him and sat down on Ron’s right. Her friend, who had curly reddish-londe hair, did
not smile, ut gave Harry a thoroughly mistrustful look which plainly told him that, given her
way, she would not e here at all.
In twos and threes the new arrivals settled around Harry, Ron and Hermione, some looking
rather excited, others curious, Luna Lovegood gazing dreamily into space. When everyody had
pulled up a chair, the chatter died out. Every eye was upon Harry.
"Er," said Hermione, her voice slightly higher than usual out of nerves. "Well - er - hi."
The group focused its attention on her instead, though eyes continued to dart ack regularly to
Harry.
"Well... erm... well, you know why you’re here. Erm... well, Harry here had the idea - I mean"
(Harry had thrown her a sharp look) "I had the idea - that it might e good if people who wanted
to study Defense Against the Dark Arts - and I mean, really study it, you know, not the ruish
that Umridge is doing with us -" (Hermione’s voice ecame suddenly much stronger and more
confident) "- ecause noody could call that Defense Against the Dark Arts -" ("Hear, hear," said Anthony Goldstein, and Hermione looked heartened) "- Well, I thought it would e good if we, well, took matters into our own hands."
She paused, looked sideways at Harry, and went on, "And y that I mean learning how to defend
ourselves properly, not just in theory ut doing the real spells -"
"You want to pass your Defense Against the Dark Arts OWL too, though, I et?" said Michael
Corner, who was watching her closely.
"Of course I do," said Hermione at once. "But more than that, I want to e properly trained in
defense ecause... ecause..." she took a great reath and finished, "ecause Lord Voldemort is
ack."
The reaction was immediate and predictale. Cho’s friend shrieked and slopped Buttereer down
herself; Terry Boot gave a kind of involuntary twitch; Padma Patil shuddered, and Neville gave
an odd yelp that he managed to turn into a cough. All of them, however, looked fixedly, even
eagerly, at Harry.
"Well... that’s the plan, anyway" said Hermione. "If you want to join us, we need to decide how
we’re going to -"
"Where’s the proof You-Know-Who’s ack?" said the lond Hufflepuff player in a rather
aggressive voice.
"Well, Dumledore elieves it -" Hermione egan.
"You mean, Dumledore elieves him," said the lond oy, nodding at Harry.
"Who are you?" said Ron, rather rudely.
"Zacharias Smith," said the oy, "and I think we’ve got the right to know exactly what makes him say You-Know-Who’s ack."
"Look," said Hermione, intervening swiftly, "that’s really not what this meeting was supposed to
e aout -"
"It’s okay, Hermione," said Harry.
It had just dawned on him why there were so many people there. He thought Hermione should
have seen this coming. Some of these people - maye even most of them - had turned up in the
hopes of hearing Harry’s story firsthand.
"What makes me say You-Know-Who’s ack?" he repeated, looking Zacharias straight in the
face. "I saw him. But Dumledore told the whole school what happened last year, and if you
didn’t elieve him, you won’t elieve me, and I’m not wasting an afternoon trying to convince
anyone."
The whole group seemed to have held its reath while Harry spoke. Harry had the impression
that even the arman was listening. He was wiping the same glass with the filthy rag, making it
steadily dirtier.
Zacharias said dismissively, "All Dumledore told us last year was that Cedric Diggory got
killed y You-Know-Who and that you rought Diggory’s ody ack to Hogwarts. He didn’t
give us details, he didn’t tell us exactly how Diggory got murdered, I think we’d all like to know
-"
"If you’ve come to hear exactly what it looks like when Voldemort murders someone I can’t help
you," Harry said. His temper, always so close to the surface these days, was rising again. He did
not take his eyes from Zacharias Smith’s aggressive face, and was determined not to look at Cho.
"I don’t want to talk aout Cedric Diggory, all right? So if that’s what you’re here for, you might as well clear out."
He cast an angry look in Hermione’s direction. This was, he felt, all her fault; she had decided to
display him like some sort of freak and of course they had all turned up to see just how wild his
story was. But none of them left their seats, not even Zacharias Smith, though he continued to
gaze intently at Harry.
"So," said Hermione, her voice very high-pitched again. "So... like I was saying... if you want to learn some defense, then we need to work out how we’re going to do it, how often we’re going to meet and where we’re going to -"
"Is it true," interrupted the girl with the long plait down her ack, looking at Harry, "that you can produce a Patronus?"
There was a murmur of interest around the group at this.
"Yeah," said Harry slightly defensively.
"A corporeal Patronus?"
The phrase stirred something in Harry’s memory.
"Er - you don’t know Madam Bones, do you?" he asked.
The girl smiled.
"She’s my auntie," she said. "I’m Susan Bones. She told me aout your hearing. So - is it really
true? You make a stag Patronus?"
"Yes," said Harry.
"Blimey, Harry!" said Lee, looking deeply impressed. "I never knew that!"
"Mum told Ron not to spread it around," said Fred, grinning at Harry. "She said you got enough
attention as it was."
"She’s not wrong," mumled Harry, and a couple of people laughed.
The veiled witch sitting alone shifted very slightly in her seat.
"And did you kill a Basilisk with that sword in Dumledore’s office?" demanded Terry Boot. "That’s what one of the portraits on the wall told me when I was in there last year..."
"Er - yeah, I did, yeah," said Harry.
Justin Finch-Fletchley whistled; the Creevey rothers exchanged awestruck looks and Lavender
Brown said "Wow!" softly. Harry was feeling slightly hot around the collar now; he was
determinedly looking anywhere ut at Cho.
"And in our first year," said Neville to the group at large, "he saved that Sorcerous Stone -"
"Sorcerer’s," hissed Hermione.
"Yes, that - from You-Know-Who," finished Neville.
Hannah Aott’s eyes were as round as Galleons.
"And that’s not to mention," said Cho (Harry’s eyes snapped across to her; she was looking at
him, smiling; his stomach did another somersault) "all the tasks he had to get through in the
Triwizard Tournament last year - getting past dragons and merpeople and Acromantula and
things..."
There was a murmur of impressed agreement around the tale. Harry’s insides were squirming.
He was trying to arrange his face so that he did not look too pleased with himself. The fact that
Cho had just praised him made it much, much harder for him to say the thing he had sworn to
himself he would tell them.
"Look," he said, and everyone fell silent at once, " I... I don’t want to sound like I’m trying to e
modest or anything, ut... I had a lot of help with all that stuff..."
"Not with the dragon, you didn’t," said Michael Corner at once. "That was a seriously cool it of
flying..."
"Yeah, well -" said Harry, feeling it would e churlish to disagree.
"And noody helped you get rid of those Dementors this summer," said Susan Bones.
"No," said Harry, "no, okay, I know I did its of it without help, ut the point I’m trying to make is -"
"Are you trying to weasel out of showing us any of this stuff?" said Zacharias Smith.
"Here’s an idea," said Ron loudly, efore Harry could speak, "why don’t you shut your mouth?"
Perhaps the word ‘weasel’ had affected Ron particularly strongly. In any case, he was now
looking at Zacharias as though he would like nothing etter than to thump him. Zacharias
flushed.
"Well, we’ve all turned up to learn from him and now he’s telling us he can’t really do any of it,"
he said.
"That’s not what he said," snarled Fred.
"Would you like us to clean out your ears for you?" enquired George, pulling a long and lethal looking metal instrument from inside one of the Zonko’s ags.
"Or any part of your ody, really, we’re not fussy where we stick this," said Fred.
"Yes, well," said Hermione hastily, "moving on... the point is, are we agreed we want to take
lessons from Harry?"
There was a murmur of general agreement. Zacharias folded his arms and said nothing, though
perhaps this was ecause he was too usy keeping an eye on the instrument in Fred’s hand.
"Right," said Hermione, looking relieved that something had at last een settled. "Well, then, the
next question is how often we do it. I really don’t think there’s any point in meeting less than
once a week -"
"Hang on," said Angelina, "we need to make sure this doesn’t clash with our Quidditch practice."
"No," said Cho, "nor with ours."
"Nor ours," added Zacharias Smith.
"I’m sure we can find a night that suits everyone," aid Hermione, slightly impatiently, "ut you
know, this is rather important, we’re talking aout learning to defend ourselves against V-Voldemort’s Death Eaters -"
"Well said!" arked Ernie Macmillan, who Harry had een expecting to speak long efore this.
"Personally I think this is really important, possily more important than anything else we’ll do
this year, even with our OWLs coming up!"
He looked around impressively, as though waiting for people to cry "Surely not!" When noody
spoke, he went on, "I, personally am at a loss to see why the Ministry has foisted such a useless
teacher on us at this critical period. Oviously, they are in denial aout the return of You-Know-
Who, ut to give us a teacher who is trying to actively prevent us from using defensive spells -"
"We think the reason Umridge doesn’t want us trained in Defense Against the Dark Arts," said
Hermione, "is that she’s got some... some mad idea that Dumledore could use the students in
the school as a kind of private army. She thinks he’d moilize us against the Ministry."
Nearly everyody looked stunned at this news; everyody except Luna Lovegood, who piped up,
"Well, that makes sense. After all, Cornelius Fudge has got his own private army."
"What?" said Harry, completely thrown y this unexpected piece of information.
"Yes, he’s got an army of Heliopaths," said Luna so lemnly.
"No, he hasn’t," snapped Hermione.
"Yes, he has," said Luna.
"What are Heliopaths?" asked Neville, looking lank.
"They’re spirits of fire," said Luna, her protuerant eyes widening so that she looked madder than ever, "great tall flaming creatures that gallop across the ground urning everything in front of -"
"They don’t exist, Neville," said Hermione tartly.
"Oh, yes, they do!" said Luna angrily.
"I’m sorry, ut where’s the proof of that?" snapped Hermione.
"There are plenty of eye-witness accounts. Just ecause you’re so narrow-minded you need to
have everything shoved under your nose efore you -"
"Hem, hem," said Ginny, in such a good imitation of Professor Umridge that several people
looked around in alarm and then laughed. "Weren’t we trying to decide how often we’re going to meet and have defense lessons?"
"Yes," said Hermione at once, "yes, we were, you’re right, Ginny."
"Well, once a week sounds cool," said Lee Jordan.
"As long as -" egan Angelina.
"Yes, yes, we know aout the Quidditch," said Hermione in a tense voice. "Well, the other thing
to decide is where we’re going to meet..."
This was rather more difficult; the whole group fell silent.
"Lirary?" suggested Katie Bell after a few moments.
"I can’t see Madam Pince eing too chuffed with us doing jinxes in the lirary," said Harry.
"Maye an unused classroom?" said Dean.
"Yeah," said Ron, "McGonagall might let us have hers, she did when Harry was practicing for the Triwizard."
But Harry was pretty certain that McGonagall would not e so accommodating this time. For all
that Hermione had said aout study and homework groups eing allowed, he had the distinct
feeling that this one might e considered a lot more reellious.
"Right, well, we’ll try to find somewhere," said Hermione. "We’ll send a message round to
everyody when we’ve got a time and a place for the first meeting."
She rummaged in her ag and produced parchment and a quill, then hesitated, rather as though
she was steeling herself to say something.
"I - I think everyody should write their name down, just so we know who was here. But I also
think," she took a deep reath, "that we all ought to agree not to shout aout what we’re doing. So if you sign, you’re agreeing not to tell Umridge or anyody else what we’re up to."
Fred reached out for the parchment and cheerfully wrote his signature, ut Harry noticed at once
that several people looked less than happy at the prospect of putting their names on the list.
"Er..." said Zacharias slowly, not taking the parchment that George was trying to pass to him,
"well... I’m sure Ernie will tell me when the meeting is."
But Ernie was looking rather hesitant aout signing, too. Hermione raised her eyerows at him.
"I - well, we are prefects," Ernie urst out. "And if this list was found... well, I mean to say...
you said yourself, if Umridge finds out -"
"You just said this group was the most important thing you’d do this year," Harry reminded him.
"I - yes," said Ernie, "yes, I do elieve that, it ‘ s just -"
"Ernie, do you really think I’d leave that list lying around?" said Hermione testily.
"No. No, of course not," said Ernie, looking slightly less anxious. "I - yes, of course I’ll sign."
Noody raised ojections after Ernie, though Harry saw Cho’s friend give her a rather
reproachful look efore adding her own name. When the last person - Zacharias - had signed,
Hermione took the parchment ack and slipped it carefully into her ag. There was an odd
feeling in the group now. It was as though they had just signed some kind of contract.
"Well, time’s ticking on," said Fred riskly, getting to his feet. "George, Lee and I have got items of a sensitive nature to purchase, we’ll e seeing you all later."
In twos and threes the rest of the group took their leave, too.
Cho made rather a usiness of fastening the catch on her ag efore leaving, her long dark
curtain of hair swinging forwards to hide her face, ut her friend stood eside her, arms folded,
clicking her tongue, so that Cho had little choice ut to leave with her. As her friend ushered her
through the door, Cho looked ack and waved at Harry.
"Well, I think that went quite well," said Hermione happily, as she, Harry and Ron walked out of
the Hog’s Head into the right sunlight a few moments later. Harry and Ron were clutching their
ottles of Buttereer.
"That Zacharias loke’s a wart," said Ron, who was glowering after the figure of Smith, just
discernile in the distance.
"I don’t like him much, either," admitted Hermione, "ut he overheard me talking to Ernie and
Hannah at the Hufflepuff tale and he seemed really interested in coming, so what could I say?
But the more people the etter really - I mean, Michael Corner and his friends wouldn’t have
come if he hadn’t een going out with Ginny -"
Ron, who had een draining the last few drops from his Buttereer ottle, gagged and sprayed
Buttereer down his front.
"He’s WHAT?" spluttered Ron, outraged, his ears now resemling curls of raw eef. "She’s
going out with - my sister’s going - what d’you mean, Michael Corner?"
"Well, that’s why he and his friends came, I think - well, they’re oviously interested in learning
defense, ut if Ginny hadn’t told Michael what was going on -"
"When did this - when did she -?"
"They met at the Yule Ball and got together at the end of last year," said Hermione composedly. They had turned into the High Street and she paused outside Scrivenshaft’s Quill Shop, where
there was a handsome display of pheasant feather quills in the window. "Hmm... I could do with
a new quill."
She turned into the shop. Harry and Ron followed her.
"Which one was Michael Corner?" Ron demanded furiously.
"The dark one," said Hermione.
"I didn’t like him," said Ron at once.
"Big surprise," said Hermione under her reath.
"But," said Ron, following Hermione along a row of quills in copper pots, "I thought Ginny
fancied Harry!"
Hermione looked at him rather pityingly and shook her head.
"Ginny used to fancy Harry, ut she gave up on him months ago. Not that she doesn’t like you, of course," she added kindly to Harry while she examined a long lack and gold quill.
Harry, whose head was still full of Cho’s parting wave, did not find this suject quite as
interesting as Ron, who was positively quivering with indignation, ut it did ring something
home to him that until now he had not really registered.
"So that’s why she talks now?" he asked Hermione. "She never used to talk in front of me."
"Exactly," said Hermione. "Yes, I think I’ll have this one..."
She went up to the counter and handed over fifteen Sickles and two Knuts, with Ron still
reathing down her neck.
"Ron," she said severely as she turned and trod on his feet, "this is exactly why Ginny hasn’t told
you she’s seeing Michael, she knew you’d take it adly. So don’t harp on aout it, for heaven’s
sake."
"What d’you mean? Who’s taking anything adly? I’m not going to harp on aout anything..."
Ron continued to chunter under his reath all the way down the street.
Hermione rolled her eyes at Harry and then said in an undertone, while Ron was still muttering
imprecations aout Michael Corner, "And talking aout Michael and Ginny... what aout Cho
and you?"
"What d’you mean?" said Harry quickly.
It was as though oiling water was rising rapidly inside him; a urning sensation that was
causing his face to smart in the cold -had he een that ovious?
"Well," said Hermione, smiling slightly, "she just couldn’t keep her eyes off you, could she?"
Harry had never efore appreciated just how eautiful the village of Hogsmeade was.
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Educational Decree Numer Twenty-Four
Harry felt happier for the rest of the weekend than he had done all term. He and Ron spent much
of Sunday catching up with all their homework again, and although this could hardly e called
fun, the last urst of autumn sunshine persisted, so rather than sitting hunched over tales in the
common room they took their work outside and lounged in the shade of a large eech tree on the
edge of the lake. Hermione, who of course was up to date with all her work, rought more wool
outside with her and ewitched her knitting needles so that they flashed and clicked in midair
eside her, producing more hats and scarves.
Knowing they were doing something to resist Umridge and the Ministry, and that he was a key
part of the reellion, gave Harry a feeling of immense satisfaction. He kept reliving Saturdays
meeting in his mind: all those people, coming to him to learn Defense Against the Dark Arts...
and the looks on their faces as they had heard some of the things he had done... and Cho praising
his performance in the Triwizard Tournament - The knowledge that all those people did not think him a lying weirdo, ut someone to e admired, uoyed him up so much that he was still cheerful on Monday morning, despite the imminent prospect of all his least favorite classes.
He and Ron headed downstairs from their dormitory, discussing Angelinas idea that they were to
work on a new move called the Sloth Grip Roll during that night’s Quidditch practice, and not
until they were halfway across the sunlit common room did they notice the addition to the room
that had already attracted the attention of a small group of people.
A large sign had een affixed to the Gryffindor noticeoard; so large it covered everything else
on it - the lists of secondhand spellooks for sale, the regular reminders of school rules from
Argus Filch, the Quidditch team training timetale, the offers to arter certain Chocolate Frog
Cards for others, the Weasleys’ latest advertisement for testers, the dates of the Hogsmeade
weekends and the lost and found notices. The new sign was printed in large lack letters and
there was a highly official-looking seal at the ottom eside a neat and curly signature.
BY ORDER OF THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS
All student organizations, societies, teams, groups and clus are henceforth disanded.
An organization, society, team, group or clu is herey defined as a regular meeting of three or
more students.
Permission to re-form may e sought from the High Inquisitor (Professor Umridge).
No student organization, society, team, group or clu may exist without the knowledge and
approval of the High Inquisitor.
Any student found to have formed, or to elong to, an organization, society, team, group or clu
that has not een approved y the High Inquisitor will e expelled.
The aove is in accordance with Educational Decree Numer Twenty-four.
Signed: Dolores Jane Umridge, High Inquisitor
Harry and Ron read the notice over the heads of some anxious-looking second-years.
"Does this mean they’re going to shut down the Gostones Clu?" one of them asked his friend.
"I reckon you’ll e okay with Gostones," Ron said darkly, making the second-year jump. "I don’t think we’re going to e as lucky, though, do you?" he asked Harry as the second-years hurried away.
Harry was reading the notice through again. The happiness that had filled him since Saturday
was gone. His insides were pulsing with rage.
"This isn’t a coincidence," he said, his hands forming fists. "She knows."
"She can’t," said Ron at once.
"There were people listening in that pu. And let’s face it, we don’t know how many of the people who turned up we can trust... any of them could have run off and told Umridge..."
And he had thought they elieved him, thought they even admired him...
"Zacharias Smith!" said Ron at once, punching a fist into his hand. "Or - I thought that Michael
Corner had a really shifty look, too -"
"I wonder if Hermione’s seen this yet?" Harry said, looking round at the door to the girls’
dormitories.
"Let’s go and tell her," said Ron. He ounded forwards, pulled open the door and set off up the
spiral staircase.
He was on the sixth stair when there was a loud, wailing, klaxon-like sound and the steps melted
together to make a long, smooth stone slid. There was a rief moment when Ron tried to keep running, arms working madly like windmills, then he toppled over ackwards and shot down the newly created slide, coming to rest on his ack at Harry’s feet.
"Er - I don’t think we’re allowed in the girls’ dormitories," said Harry, pulling Ron to his feet and trying not to laugh.
Two fourth-year girls came zooming gleefully down the stone slide.
"Oooh, who tried to get upstairs?" they giggled happily, leaping to their feet and ogling Harry
and Ron.
"Me," said Ron, who was still rather disheveled. " I didn’t realize that would happen. It’s not
fair!" he added to Harry, as the girls headed off for the portrait hole, still giggling madly. "Hermione’s allowed in our dormitory, how come we’re not allowed -?"
"Well, it’s an old-fashioned rule," said Hermione, who had just slid neatly on to a rug in front of
them and was now getting to her feet, "ut it says in Hogwarts A History, that the founders
thought oys were less trustworthy than girls. Anyway, why were you trying to get in there?"
"To see you - look at this!" said Ron, dragging her over to the noticeoard.
Hermione’s eyes slid rapidly down the notice. Her expression ecame stony.
"Someone must have laed to her!" Ron said angrily.
"They can’t have done," said Hermione in a low voice.
"You’re so naive," said Ron, "you think just ecause you’re all honorale and trustworthy -"
"No, they can’t have done, ecause I put a jinx on that piece of parchment we all signed," said
Hermione grimly. "Believe me, if anyone’s run off and told Umridge, we’ll know exactly who
they are and they will really regret it."
"What’ll happen to them?" said Ron eagerly.
"Well, put it this way" said Hermione, "it’ll make Eloise Midgeon’s acne look like a couple of
cute freckles. Come on, let’s get down to reakfast and see what the others think... I wonder
whether this has een put up in all the houses?"
It was immediately apparent on entering the Great Hall that Umridge’s sign had not only
appeared in Gryffindor Tower. There was a peculiar intensity aout the chatter and an extra
measure of movement in the Hall as people scurried up and down their tales conferring on what
they had read. Harry, Ron and Hermione had arely taken their seats when Neville, Dean, Fred,
George and Ginny descended upon them.
"Did you see it?"
"D’you reckon she knows?"
"What are we going to do?"
They were all looking at Harry. He glanced around to make sure there were no teachers near
them.
"We’re going to do it anyway of course," he said quietly.
"Knew you’d say that"‘ said George, eaming and thumping Harry on the arm.
"The prefects as well?" said Fred, looking quizzically at Ron and Hermione.
"Of course," said Hermione coolly.
"Here come Ernie and Hannah Aott," said Ron, looking over his shoulder. "And those
Ravenclaw lokes and Smith... and no one looks very spotty."
Hermione looked alarmed.
"Nevermind spots, the idiots can’t come over here now, it’ll look really suspicious - sit down!"
she mouthed to Ernie and Hannah, gesturing frantically to them to rejoin the Hufflepuff tale.
"Later! We’ll - talk - to - you - later!"
"I’ll tell Michael," said Ginny impatiently, swinging herself off her ench, "the fool, honestly..."
She hurried off towards the Ravenclaw tale; Harry watched her go. Cho was sitting not far
away, talking to the curly-haired friend she had rought along to the Hog’s Head. Would
Umridge’s notice scare her off meeting them again?
But the full repercussions of the sign were not felt until they were leaving the Great Hall for
History of Magic.
"Harry! Ron!"
It was Angelina and she was hurrying towards them looking perfectly desperate.
"It’s okay," said Harry quietly, when she was near enough to hear him. "We’re still going to -"
"You realize she’s including Quidditch in this?" Angelina said over him. "We have to go and ask
permission to re-form the Gryffindor team!"
"What?" said Harry.
"No way," said Ron, appalled.
"You read the sign, it mentions teams too! So listen, Harry... I am saying this for the last time...
please, please don’t lose your temper with Umridge again or she might not let us play any
more!"
"Okay,okay," said Harry, for Angelina looked as though she was on the verge of tears. "Don’t
worry, I’ll ehave myself..."
"Bet Umridge is in History of Magic," said Ron grimly, as they set off for Binns’s lesson. "She
hasn’t inspected Binns yet... et you anything she’s there..."
But he was wrong; the only teacher present when they entered was Professor Binns, floating an
inch or so aove his chair as usual and preparing to continue his monotonous drone on giant
wars. Harry did not even attempt to follow what he was saying today; he doodled idly on his
parchment ignoring Hermione’s frequent glares and nudges, until a particularly painful poke in
the ris made him look up angrily.
"What?"
She pointed at the window. Harry looked round. Hedwig was perched on the narrow window
ledge, gazing through the thick glass at him, a letter tied to her leg. Harry could not understand
it; they had just had reakfast, why on earth hadn’t she delivered the letter then, as usual? Many
of his classmates were pointing out Hedwig to each other, too.
"Oh, I’ve always loved that owl, she’s so eautiful," Harry heard Lavender sigh to Parvati.
He glanced round at Professor Binns who continued to read his notes, serenely unaware that the
class’s attention was even less focused upon him than usual. Harry slipped quietly off his chair,
crouched down and hurried along the row to the window, where he slid the catch and opened it
very slowly.
He had expected Hedwig to hold out her leg so that he could remove the letter and then fly off to
the Owlery ut the moment the window was open wide enough she hopped inside, hooting
dolefully. He closed the window with an anxious glance at Professor Binns, crouched low again
and sped ack to his seat with Hedwig on his shoulder. He regained his seat, transferred Hedwig
to his lap and made to remove the letter tied to her leg.
Only then did he realize that Hedwig’s feathers were oddly ruffled; some were ent the wrong
way, and she was holding one of her wings at an odd angle.
"She’s hurt!" Harry whispered, ending his head low over her. Hermione and Ron leaned in
closer; Hermione even put down her quill. "Look - there’s something wrong with her wing -"
Hedwig was quivering; when Harry made to touch the wing she gave a little jump, all her
feathers on end as though she was inflating herself, and gazed at him reproachfully.
"Professor Binns," said Harry loudly, and everyone in the class turned to look at him. "I’m not
feeling well."
Professor Binns raised his eyes from his notes, looking amazed, as always, to find the room in
front of him full of people.
"Not feeling well?" he repeated hazily.
"Not at all well," said Harry firmly getting to his feet with Hedwig concealed ehind his ack. "I
think I need to go to the hospital wing."
"Yes," said Professor Binns, clearly very much wrong-footed. "Yes... yes, hospital wing... well,
off you go, then, Perkins..."
Once outside the room, Harry returned Hedwig to his shoulder and hurried off up the corridor,
pausing to think only when he was out of sight of Binns’s door. His first choice of someody to
cure Hedwig would have een Hagrid, of course, ut as he had no idea where Hagrid was his
only remaining option was to find Professor Gruly-Plank and hope she would help.
He peered out of a window at the lustery, overcast grounds. There was no sign of her anywhere
near Hagrid’s cain; if she was not teaching, she was proaly in the staff room. He set off
downstairs, Hedwig hooting feely as she swayed on his shoulder.
Two stone gargoyles flanked the staff-room door. As Harry approached, one of them croaked,
"You should e in class, Sonny Jim."
"This is urgent," said Harry curtly.
"Ooooh, urgent, is it?" said the other gargoyle in a high-pitched voice. "Well, that’s put us in our
place, hasn’t it?"
Harry knocked. He heard footsteps, then the door opened and he found himself face to face with
Professor McGonagall.
"You haven’t een given another detention!" she said at once, her square spectacles flashing
alarmingly.
"No, Professor!" said Harry hastily.
"Well then, why are you out of class?"
"It’s urgent, apparently," said the second gargoyle snidely.
"I’m looking for Professor Gruly-Plank," Harry explained. "It’s my owl, she’s injured."
"Injured owl, did you say?"
Professor Gruly-Plank appeared at Professor McGonagall’s shoulder, smoking a pipe and
holding a copy of the Daily Prophet.
"Yes," said Harry, lifting Hedwig carefully off his shoulder, "she turned up after the other post
owls and her wing’s all funny, look -"
Professor Gruly-Plank stuck her pipe firmly etween her teeth and took Hedwig from Harry
while Professor McGonagall watched.
"Hmm," said Professor Gruly-Plank, her pipe waggling slightly as she talked. "Looks like
something’s attacked her. Can’t think what would have done it, though. Thestrals will sometimes
go for irds, of course, ut Hagrid’s got the Hogwarts Thestrals well-trained not to touch owls."
Harry neither knew nor cared what Thestrals were; he just wanted to know that Hedwig was
going to e all right. Professor McGonagall, however, looked sharply at Harry and said, "Do you
know how far this owl’s traveled, Potter?"
"Er," said Harry. "From London, I think."
He met her eyes riefly and knew, y the way her eyerows had joined in the middle, that she
understood ‘London’ to mean ‘numer twelve, Grimmauld Place’.
Professor Gruly-Plank pulled a monocle out of the inside of her roes and screwed it into her
eye, to examine Hedwig’s wing closely. "I should e ale to sort this out if you leave her with
me, Potter," she said, "she shouldn’t e flying long distances for a few days, in any case."
"Er - right - thanks"‘ said Harry, just as the ell rang for reak.
"No prolem," said Professor Gruly-Plank gruffly, turning ack into the staff room.
"Just a moment, Wilhelmina!" said Professor McGonagall. "Potters letter!"
"Oh yeah!" said Harry, who had momentarily forgotten the scroll tied to Hedwig’s leg. Professor
Gruly-Plank handed it over and then disappeared into the staff room carrying Hedwig, who
was staring at Harry as though unale to elieve he would give her away like this. Feeling
slightly guilty, he turned to go, ut Professor McGonagall called him ack.
"Potter!"
"Yes, Professor?"
She glanced up and down the corridor; there were students coming from oth directions.
"Bear in mind," she said quickly and quietly, her eyes on the scroll in his hand, "that channels of
communication in and out of Hogwarts may e eing watched, won’t you?"
"I -" said Harry, ut the flood of students rolling along the corridor was almost upon him.
Professor McGonagall gave him a curt nod and retreated into the staff room, leaving Harry to e
swept out into the courtyard with the crowd. He spotted Ron and Hermione already standing in a
sheltered corner, their cloak collars turned up against the wind. Harry slit open the scroll as he
hurried towards them and found five words in Sirius’s handwriting:
Today, same time, same place.
"Is Hedwig okay?" asked Hermione anxiously, the moment he was within earshot.
"Where did you take her?" asked Ron.
"To Gruly-Plank," said Harry. "And I met McGonagall... listen..."
And he told them what Professor McGonagall had said. To his surprise, neither of the others
looked shocked. On the contrary, they exchanged significant looks.
"What?" said Harry, looking from Ron to Hermione and ack again.
"Well, I was just saying to Ron... what if someone had tried to intercept Hedwig? I mean, she’s
never een hurt on a flight efore, has she?"
"Who’s the letter from, anyway?" asked Ron, taking the note from Harry.
"Snuffles"‘ said Harry quietly.
"‘Same time, same place?’ Does he mean the fire in the common room?"
"Oviously," said Hermione, also reading the note. She looked uneasy. "I just hope noody else
has read this..."
"But it was still sealed and everything," said Harry, trying to convince himself as much as her.
"And noody would understand what it meant if they didn’t know where we’d spoken to him
efore, would they?"
"I don’t know," said Hermione anxiously, hitching h er ag ack over her shoulder as the ell
rang again, "it wouldn’t e exactly difficult to re-seal the scroll y magic... and if anyone’s
watching the Floo Network... ut I don’t really see how we can warn him not to come
without that eing intercepted, too!"
They trudged down the stone steps to the dungeons for Potions, all three of them lost in thought,
ut as they reached the ottom of the steps they were recalled to themselves y the voice of
Draco Malfoy who was standing just outside Snape’s classroom door, waving around an official looking piece of parchment and talking much louder than was necessary so that they could hear
every word.
"Yeah, Umridge gave the Slytherin Quidditch team permission to continue playing
straightaway, I went to ask her first thing this morning. Well, it was pretty much automatic, I
mean, she knows my father really well, he’s always popping in and out of the Ministry... it’ll e
interesting to see whether Gryffindor are allowed to keep playing, won’t it?"
"Don’t rise," Hermione whispered imploringly to Harry and Ron, who were oth watching
Malfoy, faces set and fists clenched. "It’s what he wants."
"I mean," said Malfoy, raising his voice a little more, his grey eyes glittering malevolently in
Harry and Ron’s direction, "if it’s a question of influence with the Ministry, I don’t think they’ve
got much chance... from what my father says, they’ve een looking for an excuse to sack Arthur
Weasley for years... and as for Potter... my father says it’s a matter of time efore the Ministry
has him carted off to St. Mungo’s... apparently they’ve got a special ward for people whose
rains have een addled y magic."
Malfoy made a grotesque face, his mouth sagging open and his eyes rolling. Crae and Goyle
gave their usual grunts of laughter; Pansy Parkinson shrieked with glee.
Something collided hard with Harry’s shoulder, knocking him sideways. A split second later he
realized that Neville had just charged past him, heading straight for Malfoy.
"Neville, no!"
Harry leapt forward and seized the ack of Neville’s roes; Neville struggled frantically, his fists
flailing, trying desperately to get at Malfoy who looked, for a moment, extremely shocked.
"Help me!" Harry flung at Ron, managing to get an arm around Neville’s neck and dragging him
ackwards, away from the Slytherins. Crae and Goyle were flexing their arms as they stepped
in front of Malfoy, ready for the fight. Ron seized Neville’s arms, and together he and Harry
succeeded in dragging Neville ack into the Gryffindor line. Neville’s face was scarlet; the
pressure Harry was exerting on his throat rendered him quite incomprehensile, ut odd words
spluttered from his mouth.
"Not... funny... don’t... Mungo’s... show... him..."
The dungeon door opened. Snape appeared there. His lack eyes swept up the Gryffindor line to
the point where Harry and Ron were wrestling with Neville.
"Fighting, Potter, Weasley, Longottom?" Snape said in his cold, sneering voice. "Ten points from Gryffindor. Release Longottom, Potter, or it will e detention. Inside, all of you."
Harry let go of Neville, who stood panting and glaring at him.
"I had to stop you," Harry gasped, picking up his ag. "Crae and Goyle would’ve torn you
apart."
Neville said nothing; he merely snatched up his own ag and stalked off into the dungeon.
"What in the name of Merlin," said Ron slowly, as they followed Neville, "was that aout?"
Harry did not answer. He knew exactly why the suject of people who were in St. Mungo’s
ecause of magical damage to their rains was highly distressing to Neville, ut he had sworn to
Dumledore that he would not tell anyone Neville’s secret. Even Neville did not know Harry
knew.
Harry, Ron and Hermione took their usual seats at the ack of the class, pulled out parchment,
quills and their copies of One Thousand Magical Her s and Fungi. The class around them was
whispering aout what Neville had just done, ut when Snape closed the dungeon door with an
echoing ang, everyody immediately fell silent.
"You will notice," said Snape, in his low, sneering voice, "that we have a guest with us today."
He gestured towards the dim corner of the dungeon and Harry saw Professor Umridge sitting
there, clipoard on her knee. He glanced sideways at Ron and Hermione, his eyerows raised.
Snape and Umridge, the two teachers he hated most. It was hard to decide which one he wanted
to triumph over the other.
"We are continuing with our Strengthening Solution today. You will find your mixtures as you
left them last lesson; if correctly made they should have matured well over the weekend -
instructions -" he waved his wand again "- on the oard. Carry on."
Professor Umridge spent the first half hour of the lesson making notes in her corner. Harry was
very interested in hearing her question Snape; so interested, that he was ecoming careless with
his potion again.
"Salamander lood, Harry!" Hermione moaned, graing his wrist to prevent him adding the
wrong ingredient for the third time, "not pomegranate juice!"
"Right," said Harry vaguely, putting down the ottle and continuing to watch the corner.
Umridge had just got to her feet. "Ha," he said softly, as she strode etween two lines of desks
towards Snape, who was ending over Dean Thomas’s cauldron.
"Well, the class seem fairly advanced for their level," she said riskly to Snape’s ack. "Though I would question whether it is advisale to teach them a potion like the Strengthening Solution. I
think the Ministry would prefer it if that was removed from the syllaus."
Snape straightened up slowly and turned to look at her.
"Now... how long have you een teaching at Hogwarts?" she asked, her quill poised over her
clipoard.
"Fourteen years," Snape replied. His expression was unfathomale. Harry, watching him closely,
added a few drops to his potion; it hissed menacingly and turned from turquoise to orange.
"You applied first for the Defense Against the Dark Arts post, I elieve?" Professor Umridge
asked Snape.
"Yes," said Snape quietly.
"But you were unsuccessful?"
Snape’s lip curled.
"Oviously"
Professor Umridge scriled on her clipoard.
"And you have applied regularly for the Defense Against the Dark Arts post since you first
joined the school, I elieve?"
"Yes," said Snape quietly, arely moving his lips. He looked very angry.
"Do you have any idea why Dumledore has consistently refused to appoint you?" asked
Umridge.
"I suggest you ask him," said Snape jerkily.
"Oh, I shall," said Professor Umridge, with a sweet smile.
"I suppose this is relevant?" Snape asked, his lack eyes narrowed.
"Oh yes," said Professor Umridge, "yes, the Ministry wants a thorough understanding of
teachers - er - ackgrounds."
She turned away, walked over to Pansy Parkinson and egan questioning her aout the lessons.
Snape looked round at Harry and their eyes met for a second. Harry hastily dropped his gaze to
his potion, which was now congealing foully and giving off a strong smell of urned ruer.
"No marks again, then, Potter" said Snape maliciously, emptying Harry’s cauldron with a wave
of his wand. "You will write me an essay on the correct composition of this potion, indicating
how and why you went wrong, to e handed in next lesson, do you understand?"
"Yes," said Harry furiously. Snape had already given them homework and he had Quidditch
practice this evening; this would mean another couple of sleepless nights. It did not seem
possile that he had awoken that morning feeling very happy. All he felt now was a fervent
desire for this day to end.
"Maye I’ll skive off Divination," he said glumly, as they stood in the courtyard after lunch, the
wind whipping at the hems of roes and rims of hats. "I’ll pretend to e ill and do Snape’s essay
instead, then I won’t have to stay up half the night."
"You can’t skive off Divination," said Hermione severely.
"Hark who’s talking, you walked out of Divination, you hate Trelawney!" said Ron indignantly.
"I don’t hate her," said Hermione loftily. "I just think she’s an asolutely appalling teacher and a
real old fraud. But Harrys already missed History of Magic and I don’t think he ought to miss
anything else today!"
There was too much truth in this to ignore, so half an hour later Harry took his seat in the hot,
overperfumed atmosphere of the Divination classroom, feeling angry at everyody. Professor
Trelawney was yet again handing out copies of The Dream Oracle. Harry thought he’d surely e
much etter employed doing Snape’s punishment essay than sitting here trying to find meaning
in a lot of made-up dreams.
It seemed, however, that he was not the only person in Divination who was in a temper.
Professor Trelawney slammed a copy of the Oracle down on the tale etween Harry and Ron
and swept away, her lips pursed; she threw the next copy of the Oracle at Seamus and Dean,
narrowly avoiding Seamus’s head, and thrust the final one into Neville’s chest with such force
that he slipped off his pouffe.
"Well, carry on!" said Professor Trelawney loudly, her voice high-pitched and somewhat
hysterical, "you know what to do! Or am I such a su-standard teacher that you have never
learned how to open a ook?"
The class stared perplexedly at her, then at each other. Harry, however, thought he knew what
was the matter. As Professor Trelawney flounced ack to the high-acked teacher’s chair, her
magnified eyes full of angry tears, he leaned his head closer to Ron’s and muttered, "I think she’s got the results of her inspection ack."
"Professor?" said Parvati Patil in a hushed voice (she and Lavender had always rather admired
Professor Trelawney). "Professor, is there anything - er - wrong?"
"Wrong!" cried Professor Trelawney in a voice throing with emotion. "Certainly not! I have
een insulted, certainly... insinuations have een made against me... unfounded accusations
leveled... ut no, there is nothing wrong, certainly not!"
She took a great shuddering reath and looked away from Parvati, angry tears spilling from
under her glasses.
"I say nothing," she choked, "of sixteen years of devoted service... it has passed, apparently,
unnoticed... ut I shall not e insulted, no, I shall not!"
"But, Professor, who’s insulting you?" asked Parvati timidly.
"The Estalishment!" said Professor Trelawney, in a deep, dramatic, wavering voice. "Yes, those
with eyes too clouded y the mundane to See as I See, to Know as I Know... of course, we Seers
have always een feared, always persecuted... it is - alas -our fate."
She gulped, daed at her wet cheeks with the end of her shawl, then she pulled a small
emroidered handkerchief from her sleeve, and lew her nose very hard with a sound like Peeves
lowing a rasperry.
Ron sniggered. Lavender shot him a disgusted look.
"Professor," said Parvati, "do you mean... is it something Professor Umridge -?"
"Do not speak to me aout that woman!" cried Professor Trelawney, leaping to her feet, her
eads rattling and her spectacles flashing. "Kindly continue with your work!"
And she spent the rest of the lesson striding among them, tears still leaking from ehind her
glasses, muttering what sounded like threats under her reath.
"... may well choose to leave... the indignity of it... on proation... we shall see... how she
dares..."
"You and Umridge have got something in common," Harry told Hermione quietly when they
met again in Defense Against the Dark Arts. "She oviously reckons Trelawney’s an old fraud,
too... looks like she’s put her on proation."
Umridge entered the room as he spoke, wearing her lack velvet ow and an expression of
great smugness.
"Good afternoon, class."
"Good afternoon, Professor Umridge," they chanted dully.
"Wands away, please."
But there was no answering flurry of movement this time; noody had othered to take out their
wands.
"Please turn to page thirty-four of Defensive Magical Theory and read the third chapter, entitled
‘Case for Non-Offensive Responses to Magical Attack’. There will e -"
"- no need to talk," Harry, Ron and Hermione said together, under their reaths.
"No Quidditch practice," said Angelina in hollow tones when Harry, Ron and Hermione entered
the common room after dinner that night.
"But I kept my temper!" said Harry, horrified. "I didn’t say anything to her, Angelina, I swear, I -"
"I know, I know," said Angelina miseraly. "She just said she needed a it of time to consider."
"Consider what?" said Ron angrily. "She’s given the Slytherins permission, why not us?"
But Harry could imagine how much Umridge was enjoying holding the threat of no Gryffindor
Quidditch team over their heads and could easily understand why she would not want to
relinquish that weapon over them too soon.
"Well," said Hermione, "look on the right side - at least now you’ll have time to do Snape’s
essay!"
"That’s a right side, is it?" snapped Harry, while Ron stared incredulously at Hermione. "No
Quidditch practice, and extra Potions?"
Harry slumped down into a chair, dragged his Potions essay reluctantly from his ag and set to
work. It was very hard to concentrate; even though he knew Sirius was not due in the fire until
much later, he could not help glancing into the flames every few minutes just in case. There was
also an incredile amount of noise in the room: Fred and George appeared finally to have
perfected one type of Skiving Snackox, which they were taking turns to demonstrate to a
cheering and whooping crowd.
First, Fred would take a ite out of the orange end of a chew, at which he would vomit
spectacularly into a ucket they had placed in front of them. Then he would force down the
purple end of the chew, at which the vomiting would immediately cease. Lee Jordan, who was
assisting the demonstration, was lazily Vanishing the vomit at regular intervals with the same
Vanishing Spell Snape kept using on Harrys potions.
What with the regular sounds of retching, cheering and the sound of Fred and George taking
advance orders from the crowd, Harry was finding it exceptionally difficult to focus on the
correct method for Strengthening Solution. Hermione was not helping matters; the cheers and the
sound of vomit hitting the ottom of Fred and George’s ucket were punctuated y her loud and
disapproving sniffs, which Harry found, if anything, more distracting.
"Just go and stop them, then!" he said irritaly, after crossing out the wrong weight of powdered
griffin claw for the fourth time.
"I can’t, they’re not technically doing anything wrong," said Hermione through gritted teeth.
"They’re quite within their rights to eat the foul things themselves and I can’t find a rule that says the other idiots aren’t entitled to uy them, not unless they’re proven to e dangerous in some way and it doesn’t look as though they are."
She, Harry and Ron watched George projectile-vomit into the ucket, gulp down the rest of the
chew and straighten up, eaming with his arms wide to protracted applause.
"You know, I don’t get why Fred and George only got three OWLs each," said Harry, watching
as Fred, George and Lee collected gold from the eager crowd. "They really know their stuff."
"Oh, they only know flashy stuff that’s of no real use to anyone," said Hermione disparagingly.
"No real use?" said Ron in a strained voice. "Hermione, they’ve made aout twenty-six Galleons
already."
It was a long while efore the crowd around the Weasley twins dispersed, then Fred, Lee and
George sat up counting their takings even longer, so it was well past midnight when Harry, Ron
and Hermione finally had the common room to themselves. At long last, Fred had closed the
doorway to the oys’ dormitories ehind him, rattling his ox of Galleons ostentatiously so that
Hermione scowled. Harry, who was making very little progress with his Potions essay, decided
to give it up for the night. As he put his ooks away, Ron, who was dozing lightly in an
armchair, gave a muffled grunt, awoke, and looked learily into the fire.
"Sirius!" he said.
Harry whipped round. Siriuss untidy dark head was sitting in the fire again.
"Hi," he said, grinning.
"Hi," chorused Harry, Ron and Hermione, all three kneeling down on the hearthrug. Crookshanks purred loudly and approached the fire, trying, despite the heat, to put his face close
to Sirius’s.
"How’re things?" said Sirius.
"Not that good," said Harry, as Hermione pulled Crookshanks ack to stop him singeing his
whiskers. "The Ministry’s forced through another decree, which means we’re not allowed to have Quidditch teams -"
"Or secret Defense Against the Dark Arts groups?" said Sirius.
There was a short pause.
"How did you know aout that?" Harry demanded.
"You want to choose your meeting places more carefully," said Sirius, grinning still more
roadly. "The Hog’s Head, I ask you."
"Well, it was etter than the Three Broomsticks!" said Hermione defensively. "That’s always
packed with people -"
"Which means you’d have een harder to overhear," said Sirius. "You’ve got a lot to learn,
Hermione."
"Who overheard us?" Harry demanded.
"Mundungus, of course," said Sirius, and when they all looked puzzled he laughed. "He was the
witch under the veil."
"That was Mundungus?" Harry said, stunned. "What was he doing in the Hog’s Head?"
"What do you think he was doing?" said Sirius impatiently. "Keeping an eye on you, of course."
"I’m still eing followed?" asked Harry angrily.
"Yeah, you are," said Sirius, "and just as well, isn’t it, if the first thing you’re going to do on your weekend off is organize an illegal defense group."
But he looked neither angry nor worried. On the contrary, he was looking at Harry with distinct
pride.
"Why was Dung hiding from us?" asked Ron, sounding disappointed. "We’d’ve liked to’ve seen
him."
"He was anned from the Hog’s Head twenty years ago," said Sirius, "and that arman’s got a
long memory. We lost Moody’s spare Invisiility Cloak when Sturgis was arrested, so Dung’s
een dressing as a witch a lot lately... anyway... first of all, Ron - I’ve sworn to pass on a
message from your mother."
"Oh yeah?" said Ron, sounding apprehensive.
"She says on no account whatsoever are you to take part in an illegal secret Defense Against the
Dark Arts group. She says you’ll e expelled for sure and your future will e ruined. She says
there will e plenty of time to learn how to defend yourself later and that you are too young to e
worrying aout that right now. She also" (Sirius’s eyes turned to the other two) "advises Harry
and Hermione not to proceed with the group, though she accepts that she has no authority over
either of them and simply egs them to rememer that she has their est interests at heart. She
would have written all this to you, ut if the owl had een intercepted you’d all have een in real
troule, and she can’t say it for herself ecause she’s on duty tonight."
"On duty doing what?" said Ron quickly.
"Never you mind, just stuff for the Order," said Sirius. "So it’s fallen to me to e the messenger
and make sure you tell her I passed it all on, ecause I don’t think she trusts me to."
There was another pause in which Crookshanks, mewing, attempted to paw Sirius’s head, and
Ron fiddled with a hole in the hearthrug.
"So, you want me to say I’m not going to take part in the Defense group?" he muttered finally.
"Me? Certainly not!" said Sirius, looking surprised. "I think it’s an excellent idea!"
"You do?" said Harry, his heart lifting.
"Of course I do!" said Sirius. "D’you think your father and I would’ve lain down and taken orders from an old hag like Umridge?"
"But - last term all you did was tell me to e careful and not take risks -"
"Last year, all the evidence was that someone inside Hogwarts was trying to kill you, Harry!"
said Sirius impatiently. "This year, we know there’s someone outside Hogwarts who’d like to kill us all, so I think learning to defend yourselves properly is a very good idea!"
"And if we do get expelled?" Hermione asked, a quizzical look on her face.
"Hermione, this whole thing was your idea!" said Harry, staring at her.
"I know it was. I just wondered what Sirius thought," she said, shrugging.
"Well, etter expelled and ale to defend yourselves than sitting safely in school without a clue,"
said Sirius.
"Hear, hear," said Harry and Ron enthusiastically.
"So," said Sirius, "how are you organizing this group? Where are you meeting?"
"Well, that’s a it of a prolem now," said Harry. "Dunno where we’re going to e ale to go."
"How aout the Shrieking Shack?" suggested Sirius.
"Hey, that’s an idea!" said Ron excitedly, ut Hermione made a skeptical noise and all three of
them looked at her, Sirius’s head turning in the flames.
"Well, Sirius, it’s just that there were only four of you meeting in the Shrieking Shack when you
were at school," said Hermione, "and all of you could transform into animals and I suppose you
could all have squeezed under a single Invisiility Cloak if you’d wanted to. But there are
twenty-eight of us and none of us is an Animagus, so we wouldn’t need so much an Invisiility
Cloak as an Invisiility Marquee -"
"Fair point," said Sirius, looking slightly crestfallen. "Well, I’m sure you’ll come up with
somewhere. There used to e a pretty roomy secret passageway ehind that ig mirror on the
fourth floor, you might have enough space to practice jinxes in there."
"Fred and George told me it’s locked," said Harry, shaking his head. "Caved in or something."
"Oh..." said Sirius, frowning. "Well, I’ll have a think and get ack to -"
He roke off. His face was suddenly tense, alarmed. He turned sideways, apparently looking into
the solid rick wall of the fireplace.
"Sirius?" said Harry anxiously.
But he had vanished. Harry gaped at the flames for a moment, then turned to look at Ron and
Hermione.
"Why did he -?"
Hermione gave a horrified gasp and leapt to her feet, still staring at the fire.
A hand had appeared amongst the flames, groping as though to catch hold of something; a
stuy, short-fingered hand covered in ugly old-fashioned rings.
The three of them ran for it. At the door of the oys’ dormitory Harry looked ack. Umridge’s
hand was still making snatching movements amongst the flames, as though she knew exactly
where Sirius’s hair had een moments efore and was determined to seize it.
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
Dumledore’s Army
"Umridge has een reading your mail, Harry. There’s no other explanation."
"You think Umridge attacked Hedwig?" he said, outraged.
"I’m almost certain of it," said Hermione grimly. "Watch your frog, it’s escaping."
Harry pointed his wand at the ullfrog that had een hopping hopefully towards the other side of
the tale - "Accio!" - and it zoomed gloomily ack into his hand.
Charms was always one of the est lessons in which to enjoy a private chat; there was generally
so much movement and activity that the danger of eing overheard was very slight. Today, with
the room full of croaking ullfrogs and cawing ravens, and with a heavy downpour of rain
clattering and pounding against the classroom windows, Harry, Ron and Hermione’s whispered
discussion aout how Umridge had nearly caught Sirius went quite unnoticed.
"I’ve een suspecting this ever since Filch accused you of ordering Dungoms, ecause it
seemed such a stupid lie," Hermione whispered. "I mean, once your letter had een read it would
have een quite clear you weren’t ordering them, so you wouldn’t have een in troule at all - it’s a it of a feele joke, isn’t it? But then I thought, what if someody just wanted an excuse to read your mail? Well then, it would e a perfect way for Umridge to manage it - tip off Filch, let him do the dirty work and confiscate the letter, then either find a way of stealing it from him or else demand to see it - I don’t think Filch would oject, when’s he ever stuck up for a student’s rights? Harry, you’re squashing your frog."
Harry looked down; he was indeed squeezing his ullfrog so tightly its eyes were popping; he
replaced it hastily upon the desk.
"It was a very, very close call last night," said Hermione. "I just wonder if Umridge knows how
close it was. Silencio."
The ullfrog on which she was practicing her Silencing Charm was struck dum mid-croak and
glared at her reproachfully.
"If she’d caught Snuffles -"
Harry finished the sentence for her.
"- He’d proaly e ack in Azkaan this morning." He waved his wand without really
concentrating; his ullfrog swelled like a green alloon and emitted a high-pitched whistle.
"Silencio!" said Hermione hastily, pointing her wand at Harry’s frog, which deflated silently
efore them. "Well, he mustn’t do it again, that’s all. I just don’t know how we’re going to let
him know. We can’t send him an owl."
"I don’t reckon he’ll risk it again," said Ron. "He’s not stupid, he knows she nearly got
him. Silencio."
The large and ugly raven in front of him let out a derisive caw.
"Silencio. SILENCIO!"
The raven cawed more loudly.
"Its the way you’re moving your wand," said Hermione, watching Ron critically, "you don’t want to wave it, it’s more a sharp ja."
"Ravens are harder than frogs," said Ron through clenched teeth.
"Fine, let’s swap," said Hermione, seizing Rons raven and replacing it with her own fat ullfrog.
"Silencio!" The raven continued to open and close its sharp eak, ut no sound came out.
"Very good, Miss Granger!" said Professor Flitwick’s squeaky little voice, making Harry, Ron
and Hermione all jump. "Now, let me see you try, Mr. Weasley."
"Wha--? Oh - oh, right," said Ron, very flustered. "Er - silencio!"
He jaed at the ullfrog so hard he poked it in the eye: the frog gave a deafening croak and
leapt off the desk.
It came as no surprise to any of them that Harry and Ron were given additional practice of the
Silencing Charm for homework.
They were allowed to remain inside over reak due to the downpour outside. They found seats in
a noisy and overcrowded classroom on the first floor in which Peeves was floating dreamily up
near the chandelier, occasionally lowing an ink pellet at the top of someody’s head. They had
arely sat down when Angelina came struggling towards them through the groups of gossiping
students.
"I’ve got permission!" she said. "To re-form the Quidditch team!"
"Excellent!" said Ron and Harry together.
"Yeah," said Angelina, eaming. "I went to McGonagall and I think she might have appealed to
Dumledore. Anyway, Umridge had to give in. Ha! So I want you down at the pitch at seven
o’clock tonight, all right, ecause we’ve got to make up time. You realize we’re only three weeks away from our first match?"
She squeezed away from them, narrowly dodged an ink pellet from Peeves, which hit a neary
first-year instead, and vanished from sight.
Ron’s smile slipped slightly as he looked out of the window, which was now opaque with
hammering rain.
"Hope this clears up. What’s up with you, Hermione?"
She, too, was gazing at the window, ut not as though she really saw it. Her eyes were unfocused
and there was a frown on her face.
"Just thinking..." she said, still frowning at the rain-washed window.
"Aout Siri-- Snuffles?" said Harry.
"No... not exactly..." said Hermione slowly. "More... wondering... I suppose we’re doing the
right thing... I think... aren’t we?"
Harry and Ron looked at each other.
"Well, that clears that up," said Ron. "It would’ve een really annoying if you hadn’t explained
yourself properly."
Hermione looked at him as though she had only just realized he was there.
"I was just wondering," she said, her voice stronger now, "whether we’re doing the right thing,
starting this Defense Against the Dark Arts group."
"What?" said Harry and Ron together.
"Hermione, it was your idea in the first place!" said Ron indignantly.
"I know," said Hermione, twisting her fingers together. "But after talking to Snuffles..."
"But he’s all for it," said Harry.
"Yes," said Hermione, staring at the window again. "Yes, that’s what made me think maye it
wasn’t a good idea after all..."
Peeves floated over them on his stomach, peashooter at the ready; automatically all three of them
lifted their ags to cover their heads until he had passed.
"Let’s get this straight," said Harry angrily, as t hey put their ags ack on the floor, "Sirius agrees with us, so you don’t think we should do it any more?"
Hermione looked tense and rather miserale. Now staring at her own hands, she said, "Do you
honestly trust his judgment?"
"Yes, I do!" said Harry at once. "He’s always given us great advice!"
An ink pellet whizzed past them, striking Katie Bell squarely in the ear. Hermione watched Katie
leap to her feet and start throwing things at Peeves; it was a few moments efore Hermione
spoke again and it sounded as though she was choosing her words very carefully.
"You don’t think he has ecome... sort of... reckless... since he’s een cooped up in Grimmauld
Place? You don’t think he’s... kind of... living through us?"
"What d’you mean, ‘through us’?" Harry retorted.
"I mean... well, I think he’d love to e forming secret Defense societies right under the nose of
someone from the Ministry... I think he’s really frustrated at how little he can do where he is...
so I think he’s keen to kind of... egg us on."
Ron looked utterly perplexed.
"Sirius is right," he said, "you do sound just like my mother."
Hermione it her lip and did not answer. The ell rang just as Peeves swooped down on Katie
and emptied an entire ink ottle over her head.
The weather did not improve as the day wore on, so that at seven o’clock that evening, when
Harry and Ron went down to the Quidditch pitch for practice, they were soaked through within
minutes, their feet slipping and sliding on the sodden grass. The sky was a deep, thundery grey
and it was a relief to gain the warmth and light of the changing rooms, even if they knew the
respite was only temporary. They found Fred and George deating whether to use one of their
own Skiving Snackoxes to get out of flying.
"... ut I et she’d know what we’d done," Fred said out of the corner of his mouth. "If only I
hadn’t offered to sell her some Puking Pastilles yesterday."
"We could try the Fever Fudge," George muttered, "no one’s seen that yet -"
"Does it work?" enquired Ron hopefully, as the hammering of rain on the roof intensified and
wind howled around the uilding.
"Well, yeah," said Fred, "your temperature’ll go right up."
"But you get these massive pus-filled oils, too," said George, "and we haven’t worked out how
to get rid of them yet."
"I can’t see any oils," said Ron, staring at the, twins.
"No, well, you wouldn’t," said Fred darkly, "they’re not in a place we generally display to the
pulic."
"But they make sitting on a room a right pain in the -"
"All right, everyone, listen up," said Angelina loudly, emerging from the Captain’s office. "I
know it’s not ideal weather, ut there’s a chance we’ll e playing Slytherin in conditions like this
so it’s a good idea to work out how we’re going to cope with them. Harry, didn’t you do
something to your glasses to stop the rain fogging them up when we played Hufflepuff in that
storm?’
"Hermione did it," said Harry. He pulled out his wand, tapped his glasses and said, "Impervius!"
"I think we all ought to try that," said Angelina. "If we could just keep the rain off our faces it
would really help visiility - all together, come on - Impervius! okay. Let’s go."
They all stowed their wands ack in the inside pockets of their roes, shouldered their rooms
and followed Angelina out of the changing rooms.
They squelched through the deepening mud to the middle of the pitch; visiility was still very
poor even with the Impervius Charm; light was fading fast and curtains of rain were sweeping
the grounds.
"All right, on my whistle," shouted Angelina.
Harry kicked off from the ground, spraying mud in all directions, and shot upwards, the wind
pulling him slightly off course.
He had no idea how he was going to see the Snitch in this weather; he was having enough
difficulty seeing the one Bludger with which they were practicing; a minute into the practice it
almost unseated him and he had to use the Sloth Grip Roll to avoid it. Unfortunately, Angelina
did not see this. In fact, she did not appear to e ale to see anything; none of them had a clue
what the others were doing. The wind was picking up; even at a distance Harry could hear the
swishing, pounding sounds of the rain pummeling the surface of the lake.
Angelina kept them at it for nearly an hour efore conceding defeat. She led her sodden and
disgruntled team ack into the changing rooms, insisting that the practice had not een a waste of
time, though without any real conviction in her voice. Fred and George were looking particularly
annoyed; oth were andy-legged and winced with every movement. Harry could hear them
complaining in low voices as he toweled his hair dry.
"I think a few of mine have ruptured," said Fred in a hollow voice.
"Mine haven’t," said George, through clenched teeth, "they’re throing like mad... feel igger if anything."
"OUCH!" said Harry.
He pressed the towel to his face, his eyes screwed tight with pain. The scar on his forehead had
seared again, more painfully than it had in weeks.
"What’s up?" said several voices.
Harry emerged from ehind his towel; the changing room was lurred ecause he was not
wearing his glasses, ut he could still tell that everyone’s face was turned towards him.
"Nothing," he muttered, "I - poked myself in the eye, that’s all."
But he gave Ron a significant look and the two of them hung ack as the rest of the team filed
ack outside, muffled in their cloaks, their hats pulled low over their ears.
"What happened?" said Ron, the moment Alicia had disappeared through the door. "Was it your
scar?"
Harry nodded.
"But..." looking scared, Ron strode across to the window and stared out into the rain, "he - he
can’t e near us now, can he?"
"No," Harry muttered, sinking on to a ench and ruing his forehead. "He’s proaly miles
away. It hurt ecause... he’s... angry."
Harry had not meant to say that at all, and heard the words as though a stranger had spoken them
- yet knew at once that they were true. He did not know how he knew it, ut he did; Voldemort,
wherever he was, whatever he was doing, was in a towering temper.
"Did you see him?" said Ron, looking horrified. "Did you... get a vision, or something?"
Harry sat quite still, staring at his feet, allowing his mind and his memory to relax in the
aftermath of the pain.
A confused tangle of shapes, a howling rush of voices...
"He wants something done, and it’s not happening fast enough," he said.
Again, he felt surprised to hear the words coming out of his mouth, and yet was quite certain
they were true.
"But... how do you know?" said Ron.
Harry shook his head and covered his eyes with his hands, pressing down upon them with his
palms. Little stars erupted in them. He felt Ron sit down on the ench eside him and knew Ron
was staring at him.
"Is this what it was aout last time?" said Ron in a hushed voice. "When your scar hurt in
Umridge’s office? You-Know-Who was angry?"
Harry shook his head.
"What is it, then?"
Harry was thinking himself ack. He had een looking into Umridge’s face... his scar had
hurt... and he had had that odd feeling in his stomach... a strange, leaping feeling... a happy
feeling... ut of course, he had not recognized it for what it was, as he had een feeling so
miserale himself...
"Last time, it was ecause he was pleased," he said. "Really pleased. He thought... something
good was going to happen. And the night efore we came ack to Hogwarts..." he thought ack
to the moment when his scar had hurt so adly in his and Ron’s edroom in Grimmauld Place...
"he was furious."
He looked round at Ron, who was gaping at him.
"You could take over from Trelawney, mate," he said in an awed voice.
"I’m not making prophecies," said Harry.
"No, you know what you’re doing?" Ron said, sounding oth scared and impressed. "Harry, you’re reading You-Know-Who’s mind!"
"No," said Harry, shaking his head. "It’s more like... his mood, I suppose. I’m just getting flashes of what mood he’s in. Dumledore said something like this was happening last year. He said that when Voldemort was near me, or when he was feeling hatred, I could tell. Well, now I’m feeling it when he’s pleased, too..."
There was a pause. The wind and rain lashed at the uilding.
"You’ve got to tell someone," said Ron.
"I told Sirius last time."
"Well, tell him aout this time!"
"Can’t, can I?" said Harry grimly. "Umridge is watching the owls and the fires, rememer?"
"Well then, Dumledore."
"I’ve just told you, he already knows," said Harry shortly, getting to his feet, taking his cloak off
his peg and swinging it around him. "There’s no point telling him again."
Ron did up the fastening of his own cloak, watching Harry thoughtfully.
"Dumledore’d want to know," he said.
Harry shrugged.
"C’mon... we’ve still got Silencing Charms to practice."
They hurried ack through the dark grounds, sliding and stumling up the muddy lawns, not
talking. Harry was thinking hard. What was it that Voldemort wanted done that was not
happening quickly enough?
"... he’s got other plans... plans he can put into operation very quietly indeed... stuff he can only
get y stealth... like a weapon. Something he didn’t have last time."
Harry had not thought aout those words in weeks; he had een too asored in what was going
on at Hogwarts, too usy dwelling on the ongoing attles with Umridge, the injustice of all the
Ministry interference... ut now they came ack to him and made him wonder... Voldemort’s
anger would make sense if he was no nearer to laying hands on the weapon, whatever it was.
Had the Order thwarted him, stopped him from seizing it? Where was it kept? Who had it now?
"Mimulus mimletonia," said Ron’s voice and Harry came ack to his senses just in time to
clamer through the portrait hole into the common room.
It appeared that Hermione had gone to ed early, leaving Crookshanks curled in a neary chair
and an assortment of knoly knitted elf hats lying on a tale y the fire. Harry was rather
grateful that she was not around, ecause he did not much want to discuss his scar hurting and
have her urge him to go to Dumledore, too. Ron kept throwing him anxious glances, ut Harry
pulled out his Charms ooks and set to work on finishing his essay, though he was only
pretending to concentrate and y the time Ron said he was going up to ed, too, he had written
hardly anything.
Midnight came and went while Harry was reading and rereading a passage aout the uses of
scurvy-grass, lovage and sneezewort and not taking in a word of it.
These plants are most efficacious in the inflaming of the rain, and are therefore much used
in Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts, where the wizard is desirous of producing hot-headedness and recklessness...
... Hermione said Sirius was ecoming reckless cooped up in Grimmauld Place...
... most efficacious in the inflaming of the rain, and are therefore much used...
... the Daily Prophet would think his rain was inflamed if they found out that he knew what
Voldemort was feeling...
... therefore much used in Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts...
... confusing was the word, all right; why did he know what Voldemort was feeling? What was
this weird connection etween them, which Dumledore had never een ale to explain
satisfactorily?
... where the wizard is desirous...
... how Harry would like to sleep...
... producing hot-headedness...
... it was warm and comfortale in his armchair efore the fire, with the rain still eating heavily
on the windowpanes, Crookshanks purring, and the crackling of the flames...
The ook slipped from Harry’s slack grip and landed with a dull thud on the hearthrug. His head
rolled sideways...
He was walking once more along a windowless corridor, his footsteps echoing in the silence. As
the door at the end of the passage loomed larger, his heart eat fast with excitement... if he could
only open it... enter eyond...
He stretched out his hand... his fingertips were inches from it...
"Harry Potter, sir!"
He awoke with a start. The candles had all een extinguished in the common room, ut there was
something moving close y.
"Whozair?" said Harry, sitting upright in his chair. The fire was almost out, the room very dark.
"Doy has your owl, sir!" said a squeaky voice.
"Doy?" said Harry thickly, peering through the gloom towards the source of the voice.
Doy the house-elf was standing eside the tale on which Hermione had left half a dozen of
her knitted hats. His large, pointed ears were now sticking out from eneath what looked like all
the hats Hermione had ever knitted; he was wearing one on top of the other, so that his head
seemed elongated y two or three feet, and on the very topmost ole sat Hedwig, hooting
serenely and oviously cured.
"Doy volunteered to return Harry Potter’s owl," said the elf squeakily, with a look of positive
adoration on his face, "Professor Gruly-Plank says she is all well now, sir." He sank into a
deep ow so that his pencil-like nose rushed the threadare surface of the hearthrug and
Hedwig gave an indignant hoot and fluttered on to the arm of Harry’s chair.
"Thanks, Doy!" said Harry, stroking Hedwig’s head and linking hard, trying to rid himself of
the image of the door in his dream... it had een very vivid. Surveying Doy more closely, he
noticed that the elf was also wearing several scarves and innumerale socks, so that his feet
looked far too ig for his ody.
"Er... have you een taking all the clothes Hermione’s een leaving out?"
"Oh, no, sir," said Doy happily. "Doy has een taking some for Winky, too, sir."
"Yeah, how is Winky?" asked Harry.
Doy’s ears drooped slightly.
"Winky is still drinking lots, sir," he said sadly, his enormous round green eyes, large as tennis
alls, downcast. "She still does not care for clothes, Harry Potter. Nor do the other house-elves.
None of them will clean Gryffindor Tower any more, not with the hats and socks hidden
everywhere, they finds them insulting, sir. Doy does it all himself, sir, ut Doy does not
mind, sir, for he always hopes to meet Harry Potter and tonight, sir, he has got his wish!" Doy
sank into a deep ow again. "But Harry Potter does not seem happy," Doy went on,
straightening up again and looking timidly at Harry. "Doy heard him muttering in his sleep.
Was Harry Potter having ad dreams?"
"Not really ad," said Harry, yawning and ruing his eyes. "I’ve had worse."
The elf surveyed Harry out of his vast, or-like eyes. Then he said very seriously, his ears
drooping, "Doy wishes he could help Harry Potter, for Harry Potter set Doy free and Doy
is much, much happier now."
Harry smiled.
"You can’t help me, Doy, ut thanks for the offer."
He ent and picked up his Potions ook. He’d have to try to finish the essay tomorrow. He
closed the ook and as he did so the firelight illuminated the thin white scars on the ack of his
hand - the result of his detentions with Umridge...
"Wait a moment - there is something you can do for me, Doy," said Harry slowly.
The elf looked round, eaming.
"Name it, Harry Potter, sir!"
"I need to find a place where twenty-eight people can practice Defense Against the Dark Arts
without eing discovered y any of the teachers. Especially," Harry clenched his hand on the
ook, so that the scars shone pearly white, "Professor Umridge."
He expected the elf’s smile to vanish, his ears to droop; he expected him to say it was
impossile, or else that he would try to find somewhere, ut his hopes were not high. What he
had not expected was for Doy to give a little skip, his ears waggling cheerfully, and clap his
hands together.
"Doy knows the perfect place, sir!" he said happily. "Doy heard tell of it from the other
house-elves when he came to Hogwarts, sir. It is known y us as the Come and Go Room, sir, or
else as the Room of Requirement!"
"Why?" said Harry curiously.
"Because it is a room that a person can only enter," said Doy seriously, "when they have real
need of it. Sometimes it is there, and sometimes it is not, ut when it appears, it is always
equipped for the seeker’s needs. Doy has used it, sir," said the elf, dropping his voice and
looking guilty, "when Winky has een very drunk; he has hidden her in the Room of
Requirement and he has found antidotes to Buttereer there, and a nice elf-sized ed to settle her
on while she sleeps it off, sir... and Doy knows Mr. Filch has found extra cleaning materials
there when he has run short, sir, and -"
"And if you really needed a athroom," said Harry, suddenly rememering something
Dumledore had said at the Yule Ball the previous Christmas, "would it fill itself with chamer
pots?"
"Doy expects so, sir," said Doy, nodding earnestly. "It is a most amazing room, sir."
"How many people know aout it?" said Harry, sitting up straighter in his chair.
"Very few, sir. Mostly people stumles across it when they needs it, sir, ut often they never
finds it again, for they do not know that it is always there waiting to e called into service, sir."
"It sounds rilliant," said Harry, his heart racing. "It sounds perfect, Doy. When can you show me where it is?"
"Any time, Harry Potter, sir," said Doy, looking delighted at Harrys enthusiasm. "We could go
now, if you like!"
For a moment Harry was tempted to go with Doy. He was halfway out of his seat, intending to
hurry upstairs for his Invisiility Cloak when, not for the first time, a voice very much like
Hermione’s whispered in his ear: reckless. It was, after all, very late, he was exhausted, and had
Snape’s essay to finish.
"Not tonight, Doy," said Harry reluctantly, sinking ack into his chair. "This is really
important... I don’t want to low it, it’ll need proper planning. Listen, can you just tell me
exactly where this Room of Requirement is, and how to get in there?"
Their roes illowed and swirled around them as they splashed across the flooded vegetale
patch to doule Herology, where they could hardly hear what Professor Sprout was saying over
the hammering of raindrops hard as hailstones on the greenhouse roof. The afternoons Care of
Magical Creatures lesson was to e relocated from the storm-swept grounds to a free classroom
on the ground floor and, to their intense relief, Angelina had sought out her team at lunch to tell
them that Quidditch practice was cancelled.
"Good," said Harry quietly, when she told him, "ecause we’ve found somewhere to have our
first Defense meeting. Tonight, eight o’clock, seventh floor opposite that tapestry of Barnaas
the Barmy eing clued y those trolls. Can you tell Katie and Alicia?"
She looked slightly taken aack ut promised to tell the others. Harry returned hungrily to his
sausages and mash. When he looked up to take a drink of pumpkin juice, he found Hermione
watching him.
"What?" he said thickly.
"Well... it’s just that Doy’s plans aren’t always that safe. Don’t you rememer when he lost
you all the ones in your arm?"
"This room isn’t just some mad idea of Doy’s; Dumledore knows aout it, too, he mentioned
it to me at the Yule Ball."
Hermione’s expression cleared.
"Dumledore told you aout it?"
"Just in passing," said Harry, shrugging.
"Oh, well, that’s all right then," said Hermione riskly and raised no more ojections.
Together with Ron they had spent most of the day seeking out those people who had signed their
names to the list in the Hog’s Head and telling them where to meet that evening. Somewhat to
Harry’s disappointment, it was Ginny who managed to find Cho Chang and her friend first;
however, y the end of dinner he was confident that the news had een passed to every one of
the twenty-five people who had turned up in the Hog’s Head.
At half past seven Harry, Ron and Hermione left the Gryffindor common room, Harry clutching
a certain piece of aged parchment in his hand. Fifth-years were allowed to e out in the corridors
until nine o’clock, ut all three of them kept looking around nervously as they made their way
along the seventh floor.
"Hold it," Harry warned, unfolding the piece of parchment at the top of the last staircase, tapping
it with his wand and muttering, "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good."
A map of Hogwarts appeared on the lank surface of the parchment. Tiny lack moving dots,
laeled with names, showed where various people were.
"Filch is on the second floor," said Harry, holding the map close to his eyes, "and Mrs. Norris is
on the fourth."
"And Umridge?" said Hermione anxiously.
"In her office," said Harry, pointing. "Okay, lets go."
They hurried along the corridor to the place Doy had descried to Harry, a stretch of lank
wall opposite an enormous tapestry depicting Barnaas the Barmy’s foolish attempt to train trolls
for the allet.
"Okay," said Harry quietly, while a moth-eaten troll paused in his relentless cluing of the would e allet teacher to watch them. "Doy said to walk past this it of wall three times,
concentrating hard on what we need."
They did so, turning sharply at the window just eyond the lank stretch of wall, then at the man-sized vase on its other side. Ron had screwed up his eyes in concentration; Hermione was
whispering something under her reath; Harry’s fists were clenched as he stared ahead of him.
We need somewhere to learn to fight... he thought. Just give us a place to practice... somewhere they can’t find us...
"Harry!" said Hermione sharply, as they wheeled around after their third walk past.
A highly polished door had appeared in the wall. Ron was staring at it, looking slightly wary.
Harry reached out, seized the rass handle, pulled open the door and led the way into a spacious
room lit with flickering torches like those that illuminated the dungeons eight floors elow.
The walls were lined with wooden ookcases and instead of chairs there were large silk cushions
on the floor. A set of shelves at the far end of the room carried a range of instruments such as
Sneakoscopes, Secrecy Sensors and a large, cracked Foe-Glass that Harry was sure had hung, the
previous year, in the fake Moodys office.
"These will e good when we’re practicing Stunning, " said Ron enthusiastically, prodding one of the cushions with his foot.
"And just look at these ooks!" said Hermione excitedly, running a finger along the spines of the
large leather-ound tomes. "A Compendium of Common Curses and their Counter-Actions...
The Dark Arts Outsmarted... Self-Defensive Spellwork... wow..." She looked around at Harry,
her face glowing, and he saw that the presence of hundreds of ooks had finally convinced
Hermione that what they were doing was right. "Harry, this is wonderful, there’s everything we
need here!"
And without further ado she slid ‘Jinxes for the Jinxed’ from its shelf, sank on to the nearest
cushion and egan to read.
There was a gentle knock on the door. Harry looked round. Ginny, Neville, Lavender, Parvati
and Dean had arrived.
"Whoa," said Dean, staring around, impressed. "What is this place?"
Harry egan to explain, ut efore he had finished more people had arrived and he had to start all
over again. By the time eight o’clock arrived, every cushion was occupied. Harry moved across
to the door and turned the key protruding from the lock; it clicked in a satisfyingly loud way and
everyody fell silent, looking at him. Hermione carefully marked her page of ‘Jinxes for the
Jinxed’ and set the ook aside.
"Well," said Harry, slightly nervously. "This is the place we’ve found for practice sessions, and
you’ve - er - oviously found it okay."
"It’s fantastic!" said Cho, and several people murmured their agreement.
"It’s izarre," said Fred, frowning around at it. "We once hid from Filch in here, rememer,
George? But it was just a room cupoard then."
"Hey, Harry, what’s this stuff?" asked Dean from the rear of the room, indicating the
Sneakoscopes and the Foe-Glass.
"Dark detectors," said Harry, stepping etween the cushions to reach them. "Basically they all
show when Dark wizards or enemies are around, ut you don’t want to rely on them too much,
they can e fooled..."
He gazed for a moment into the cracked Foe-Glass; shadowy figures were moving around inside
it, though none was recognizale. He turned his ack on it.
"Well, I’ve een thinking aout the sort of stuff we ought to do first and - er -" He noticed a
raised hand. "What, Hermione?"
"I think we ought to elect a leader," said Hermione.
"Harry’s leader," said Cho at once, looking at Hermione as though she were mad.
Harrys stomach did yet another ack-flip.
"Yes, ut I think we ought to vote on it properly," said Hermione, unpertured. "It makes it
formal and it gives him authority. So - everyone who thinks Harry ought to e our leader?"
Everyody put up their hand, even Zacharias Smith, though he did it very half-heartedly.
"Er - right, thanks," said Harry, who could feel his face urning. "And -what, Hermione?"
"I also think we ought to have a name," she said rightly, her hand still in the air. "It would
promote a feeling of team spirit and unity, don’t you think?"
"Can we e the Anti-Umridge League?" said Angelina hopefully.
"Or the Ministry of Magic are Morons Group?" suggested Fred.
"I was thinking," said Hermione, frowning at Fred, "more of a name that didn’t tell everyone
what we were up to, so we can refer to it safely outside meetings."
"The Defense Association?" said Cho. "The D.A. for short, so noody knows what we’re talking
aout?"
"Yeah, the D.A.’s good," said Ginny. "Only let’s make it stand for Dumledores Army, ecause
that’s the Ministry’s worst fear, isn’t it?"
There was a good deal of appreciative murmuring and laughter at this.
"All in favor of the D.A.?" said Hermione ossily, kneeling up on her cushion to count. "That’s a
majority - motion passed!"
She pinned the piece of parchment with all of their signatures on it on to the wall and wrote
across the top in large letters:
"Right," said Harry, when she had sat down again, "shall we get practicing then? I was thinking,
the first thing we should do is Expelliarmus, you know, the Disarming Charm. I know it’s pretty asic ut I’ve found it really useful -"
"Oh, please," said Zacharias Smith, rolling his eye s and folding his arms. "I don’t think Expelliarmus is exactly going to help us against You-Know-Who, do you?"
"I’ve used it against him," said Harry quietly. "It saved my life in June."
Smith opened his mouth stupidly. The rest of the room was very quiet.
"But if you think it’s eneath you, you can leave," Harry said.
Smith did not move. Nor did anyody else.
"Okay," said Harry, his mouth slightly drier than usual with all these eyes upon him, "I reckon we should all divide into pairs and practice."
It felt very odd to e issuing instructions, ut not nearly as odd as seeing them followed.
Everyody got to their feet at once and divided up. Predictaly, Neville was left partnerless.
"You can practice with me," Harry told him. "Right-on the count of three, then-one, two, three-"
The room was suddenly full of shouts of Expelliarmus. Wands flew in all directions; missed
spells hit ooks on shelves and sent them flying into the air. Harry was too quick for Neville,
whose wand went spinning out of his hand, hit the ceiling in a shower of sparks and landed with
a clatter on top of a ookshelf, from which Harry retrieved it with a Summoning Charm.
Glancing around, he thought he had een right to suggest they practice the asics first; there was
a lot of shoddy spellwork going on; many people were not succeeding in Disarming their
opponents at all, ut merely causing them to jump ackwards a few paces or wince as their
feele spell whooshed over them.
"Expelliarmus!" said Neville, and Harry, caught unawares, felt his wand fly out of his hand.
"I DID IT!" said Neville gleefully. "I’ve never done it efore - I DID IT!"
"Good one!" said Harry encouragingly, deciding not to point out that in a real duel Nevilles
opponent was unlikely to e staring in the opposite direction with his wand held loosely at his
side. "Listen, Neville, can you take it in turns to practice with Ron and Hermione for a couple of
minutes so I can walk around and see how the rest are doing?"
Harry moved off into the middle of the room. Something very odd was happening to Zacharias
Smith. Every time he opened his mouth to disarm Anthony Goldstein, his own wand would fly
out of his hand, yet Anthony did not seem to e making a sound. Harry did not have to look far
to solve the mystery: Fred and George were several feet from Smith and taking it in turns to
point their wands at his ack.
"Sorry, Harry" said George hastily, when Harry caught his eye. "Couldn’t resist."
Harry walked around the other pairs, trying to correct those who were doing the spell wrong.
Ginny was teamed with Michael Corner; she was doing very well, whereas Michael was either
very ad or unwilling to jinx her. Ernie Macmillan was flourishing his wand unnecessarily,
giving his partner time to get in under his guard; the Creevey rothers were enthusiastic ut
erratic and mainly responsile for all the ooks leaping off the shelves around them; Luna
Lovegood was similarly patchy, occasionally sending Justin Finch-Fletchley’s wand spinning out
of his hand, at other times merely causing his hair to stand on end.
"Okay, stop!" Harry shouted. "Stop! STOP!"
I need a whistle, he thought, and immediately spotted one lying on top of the nearest row of
ooks. He caught it up and lew hard. Everyone lowered their wands.
"That wasn’t ad," said Harry, "ut there’s definite room for improvement." Zacharias Smith
glared at him. "Let’s try again."
He moved off around the room again, stopping here and there to make suggestions. Slowly, the
general performance improved.
He avoided going near Cho and her friend for a while, ut after walking twice around every other
pair in the room felt he could not ignore them any longer.
"Oh no," said Cho rather wildly as he approached. "Expelliarmious! I mean, Expellimellius!! I -
oh, sorry, Marietta!"
Her curly-haired friend’s sleeve had caught fire; Marietta extinguished it with her own wand and
glared at Harry as though it was his fault.
"You made me nervous, I was doing all right efore then!" Cho told Harry ruefully.
"That was quite good," Harry lied, ut when she raised her eyerows he said, "Well, no, it was
lousy, ut I know you can do it properly, I was watching from over there."
She laughed. Her friend Marietta looked at them rather sourly and turned away.
"Don’t mind her," Cho muttered. "She doesn’t really want to e here ut I made her come with
me. Her parents have foridden her to do anything that might upset Umridge. You see - her
mum works for the Ministry."
"What aout your parents?" asked Harry.
"Well, they’ve foridden me to get on the wrong side of Umridge, too," said Cho, drawing
herself up proudly. "But if they think I’m not going to fight You-Know-Who after what
happened to Cedric -"
She roke off, looking rather confused, and an awkward silence fell etween them; Terry Boot’s
wand went whizzing past Harry’s ear and hit Alicia Spinnet hard on the nose.
"Well, my dad is very supportive of any anti-Ministry action!" said Luna Lovegood proudly from just ehind Harry; evidently she had een eavesdropping on his conversation while Justin Finch-Fletchley attempted to disentangle himself from the roes that had flown up over his head. "He’s always saying he’d elieve anything of Fudge; I mean, the numer of golins Fudge has had assassinated! And of course he uses the Department of Mysteries to develop terrile poisons,
which he secretly feeds to anyody who disagrees with him. And then there’s his Umguular
Slashkilter --"
"Don’t ask," Harry muttered to Cho as she opened her mouth, looking puzzled. She giggled.
"Hey, Harry," Hermione called from the other end of the room, "have you checked the time?"
He looked down at his watch and was shocked to see it was already ten past nine, which meant
they needed to get ack to their common rooms immediately or risk eing caught and punished
y Filch for eing out of ounds. He lew his whistle; everyody stopped shouting
"Expelliarmus" and the last couple of wands clattered to the floor.
"Well, that was pretty good," said Harry, "ut we’ve overrun, we’d etter leave it here. Same
time, same place next week?"
"Sooner!’ said Dean Thomas eagerly and many people nodded in agreement.
Angelina, however, said quickly. "The Quidditch season’s aout to start, we need team practices
too!"
"Let’s say next Wednesday night, then," said Harry, "we can decide on additional meetings then. Come on, we’d etter get going."
He pulled out the Marauder’s Map again and checked it carefully for signs of teachers on the
seventh floor. He let them all leave in threes and fours, watching their tiny dots anxiously to see
that they returned safely to their dormitories: the Hufflepuffs to the asement corridor that also
led to the kitchens; the Ravenclaws to a tower on the west side of the castle, and the Gryffindors
along the corridor to the Fat Lady’s portrait.
"That was really, really good, Harry" said Hermione, when finally it was just her, Harry and Ron
who were left.
"Yeah, it was!" said Ron enthusiastically, as they slipped out of the door and watched it melt
ack into stone ehind them. "Did you see me disarm Hermione, Harry?"
"Only once," said Hermione, stung. "I got you loads more than you got me -"
"I did not only get you once, I got you at least three times -"
"Well, if you’re counting the one where you tripped over your own feet and knocked the wand
out of my hand -"
They argued all the way ack to the common room, ut Harry was not listening to them. He had
one eye on the Marauder’s Map, ut he was also thinking of Cho saying he made her nervous.
CHAPTER NINETEEN
The Lion and the Serpent
Harry felt as though he were carrying some kind of talisman inside his chest over the following
two weeks, a glowing secret that supported him through Umridge’s classes and even made it
possile for him to smile landly as he looked into her horrile ulging eyes. He and the D.A.
were resisting her under her very nose, doing the very thing she and the Ministry most feared,
and whenever he was supposed to e reading Wilert Slinkhard’s ook during her lessons he
dwelled instead on satisfying memories of their most recent meetings, rememering how Neville
had successfully disarmed Hermione, how Colin Creevey had mastered the Impediment Jinx
after three meetings’ hard effort, how Parvati Patil had produced such a good Reductor Curse
that she had reduced the tale carrying all the Sneakoscopes to dust.
He was finding it almost impossile to fix a regular night of the week for the D.A. meetings, as
they had to accommodate three separate team’s Quidditch practices, which were often rearranged
due to ad weather conditions; ut Harry was not sorry aout this; he had a feeling that it was
proaly etter to keep the timing of their meetings unpredictale. If anyone was watching them,
it would e hard to make out a pattern.
Hermione soon devised a very clever method of communicating the time and date of the next
meeting to all the memers in case they needed to change it at short notice, ecause it would
look suspicious if people from different Houses were seen crossing the Great Hall to talk to each
other too often. She gave each of the memers of the D.A. a fake Galleon (Ron ecame very
excited when he first saw the asket and was convinced she was actually giving out gold).
"You see the numerals around the edge of the coins?" Hermione said, holding one up for
examination at the end of their fourth meeting. The coin gleamed fat and yellow in the light from
the torches. "On real Galleons that’s just a serial numer referring to the golin who cast the
coin. On these fake coins, though, the numers will change to reflect the time and date of the
next meeting. The coins will grow hot when the date changes, so if you’re carrying them in a
pocket you’ll e ale to feel them. We take one each, and when Harry sets the date of the next
meeting he’ll change the numers on his coin, and ecause I’ve put a Protean Charm on them,
they’ll all change to mimic his."
A lank silence greeted Hermione’s words. She looked around at all the faces upturned to her,
rather disconcerted.
"Well - I thought it was a good idea," she said uncertainly, "I mean, even if Umridge asked us to turn out our pockets, there’s nothing fishy aout carrying a Galleon, is there? But... well, if you don’t want to use them -"
"You can do a Protean Charm?" said Terry Boot.
"Yes," said Hermione.
"But that’s... that’s NEWT standard, that is," he said weakly.
"Oh," said Hermione, trying to look modest. "Oh... well... yes, I suppose it is."
"How come you’re not in Ravenclaw?" he demanded, staring at Hermione with something close
to wonder. "With rains like yours?"
"Well, the Sorting Hat did seriously consider putting me in Ravenclaw during my Sorting," said
Hermione rightly, "ut it decided on Gryffindor in the end. So, does that mean we’re using the
Galleons?"
There was a murmur of assent and everyody moved forwards to collect one from the asket.
Harry looked sideways at Hermione.
"You know what these remind me of?"
"No, what’s that?"
"The Death Eaters’ scars. Voldemort touches one of them, and all their scars urn, and they
know they’ve got to join him."
"Well... yes," said Hermione quietly, "that is where I got the idea ut you’ll notice I decided to
engrave the date on its of metal rather than on our memers’ skin."
"Yeah... I prefer your way," said Harry, grinning, as he slipped his Galleon into his pocket. "I
suppose the only danger with these is that we might accidentally spend them."
"Fat chance," said Ron, who was examining his own fake Galleon with a slightly mournful air, "I haven’t got any real Galleons to confuse it with."
As the first Quidditch match of the season, Gryffindor versus Slytherin, drew nearer, their D.A.
meetings were put on hold ecause Angelina insisted on almost daily practices. The fact that the
Quidditch Cup had not een held for so long added consideraly to the interest and excitement
surrounding the forthcoming game; the Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs were taking a lively interest
in the outcome, for they, of course, would e playing oth teams over the coming year; and the
Heads of House of the competing teams, though they attempted to disguise it under a decent
pretence of sportsmanship, were determined to see their own side victorious. Harry realized how
much Professor McGonagall cared aout eating Slytherin when she astained from giving them
homework in the week leading up to the match.
"I think you’ve got enough to e getting on with at the moment," she said loftily. Noody could
quite elieve their ears until she looked directly at Harry and Ron and said grimly, "I’ve ecome
accustomed to seeing the Quidditch Cup in my study, oys, and I really don’t want to have to
hand it over to Professor Snape, so use the extra time to practice, won’t you?"
Snape was no less oviously partisan; he had ooked the Quidditch pitch for Slytherin practice
so often that the Gryffindors had difficulty getting on it to play. He was also turning a deaf ear to
the many reports of Slytherin attempts to hex Gryffindor players in the corridors. When Alicia
Spinnet turned up in the hospital wing with her eyerows growing so thick and fast they
oscured her vision and ostructed her mouth, Snape insisted that she must have attempted a
Hair-thickening Charm on herself and refused to listen to the fourteen eye-witnesses who
insisted they had seen the Slytherin Keeper, Miles Bletchley, hit her from ehind with a jinx
while she worked in the lirary.
Harry felt optimistic aout Gryffindor’s chances; they had, after all, never lost to Malfoy’s team.
Admittedly, Ron was still not performing to Wood’s standard, ut he was working extremely
hard to improve. His greatest weakness was a tendency to lose confidence after he’d made a
lunder; if he let in one goal he ecame flustered and was therefore likely to miss more. On the
other hand, Harry had seen Ron make some truly spectacular saves when he was on form; during
one memorale practice he had hung one-handed from his room and kicked the Quaffle so hard
away from the goal hoop that it soared the length of the pitch and through the center hoop at the
other end; the rest of the team felt this save compared favoraly with one made recently y
Barry Ryan, the Irish International Keeper, against Poland’s top Chaser, Ladislaw Zamojski.
Even Fred had said that Ron might yet make him and George proud, and that they were seriously
considering admitting he was related to them, something they assured him they had een trying
to deny for four years.
The only thing really worrying Harry was how much Ron was allowing the tactics of the
Slytherin team to upset him efore they even got on to the pitch. Harry, of course, had endured
their snide comments for over four years, so whispers of, "Hey, Potty, I heard Warrington’s
sworn to knock you off your room on Saturday", far from chilling his lood, made him laugh.
"Warrington’s aim’s so pathetic I’d e more worried if he was aiming for the person next to me,"
he retorted, which made Ron and Hermione laugh and wiped the smirk off Pansy Parkinsons
face.
But Ron had never endured a relentless campaign of insults, jeers and intimidation. When
Slytherins, some of them seventh-years and consideraly larger than he was, muttered as they
passed in the corridors, "Got your ed ooked in the hospital wing, Weasley?" he didn’t laugh,
ut turned a delicate shade of green. When Draco Malfoy imitated Ron dropping the Quaffle
(which he did whenever they came within sight of each other), Ron’s ears glowed red and his
hands shook so adly that he was likely to drop whatever he was holding at the time, too.
Octoer extinguished itself in a rush of howling winds and driving rain and Novemer arrived,
cold as frozen iron, with hard frosts every morning and icy draughts that it at exposed hands
and faces. The skies and the ceiling of the Great Hall turned a pale, pearly grey, the mountains
around Hogwarts were snowcapped, and the temperature in the castle dropped so low that many
students wore their thick protective dragon skin gloves in the corridors etween lessons.
The morning of the match dawned right and cold. When Harry awoke he looked round at Ron’s
ed and saw him sitting olt upright, his arms around his knees, staring fixedly into space.
"You all right?" said Harry.
Ron nodded ut did not speak. Harry was reminded forcily of the time Ron had accidentally put
a Slug-vomiting Charm on himself; he looked just as pale and sweaty as he had done then, not to
mention as reluctant to open his mouth.
"You just need some reakfast," Harry said racingly. "C’mon."
The Great Hall was filling up fast when they arrived, the talk louder and the mood more
exuerant than usual. As they passed the Slytherin tale there was an upsurge of noise. Harry
looked round and saw that, in addition to the usual green and silver scarves and hats, every one
of them was wearing a silver adge in the shape of what seemed to e a crown. For some reason
many of them waved at Ron, laughing uproariously. Harry tried to see what was written on the
adges as he walked y, ut he was too concerned to get Ron past their tale quickly to linger
long enough to read them.
They received a rousing welcome at the Gryffindor tale, where everyone was wearing red and
gold, ut far from raising Ron’s spirits the cheers seemed to sap the last of his morale; he
collapsed on to the nearest ench looking as though he were facing his final meal.
"I must’ve een mental to do this," he said in a croaky whisper. "Mental."
"Don’t e thick," said Harry firmly, passing him a choice of cereals, "you’re going to e fine. It’s normal to e nervous."
"I’m ruish," croaked Ron. "I’m lousy. I can’t play to save my life. What was I thinking?"
"Get a grip," said Harry sternly. "Look at that save you made with your foot the other day, even
Fred and George said it was rilliant."
Ron turned a tortured face to Harry.
"That was an accident," he whispered miseraly. "I didn’t mean to do it - I slipped off my room
when none of you were looking and when I was trying to get ack on I kicked the Quaffle y
accident."
"Well," said Harry, recovering quickly from this unpleasant surprise, "a few more accidents like
that and the game’s in the ag, isn’t it?"
Hermione and Ginny sat down opposite them wearing red and gold scarves, gloves and rosettes.
"How’re you feeling?" Ginny asked Ron, who was now staring into the dregs of milk at the
ottom of his empty cereal owl as though seriously considering attempting to drown himself in
them.
"He’s just nervous," said Harry.
"Well, that’s a good sign, I never feel you perform as well in exams if you’re not a it nervous,"
said Hermione heartily.
"Hello," said a vague and dreamy voice from ehind them. Harry looked up: Luna Lovegood had
drifted over from the Ravenclaw tale. Many people were staring at her and a few were openly
laughing and pointing; she had managed to procure a hat shaped like a life-size lion’s head,
which was perched precariously on her head.
"I’m supporting Gryffindor," said Luna, pointing un necessarily at her hat. "Look what it does..."
She reached up and tapped the hat with her wand. It opened its mouth wide and gave an
extremely realiztic roar that made everyone in the vicinity jump.
"It’s good, isn’t it?" said Luna happily. "I wanted to have it chewing up a serpent to represent
Slytherin, you know, ut there wasn’t time. Anyway... good luck, Ronald!"
She drifted away. They had not quite recovered from the shock of Luna’s hat efore Angelina
came hurrying towards them, accompanied y Katie and Alicia, whose eyerows had mercifully
een returned to normal y Madam Pomfrey.
"When you’re ready" she said, "we’re going to go straight down to the pitch, check out conditions and change."
"We’ll e there in a it," Harry assured her. "Ron’s just got to have some reakfast."
It ecame clear after ten minutes, however, that Ron was not capale of eating anything more
and Harry thought it est to get him down to the changing rooms. As they rose from the tale,
Hermione got up, too, and taking Harry’s arm she drew him to one side.
"Don’t let Ron see what’s on those Slytherins’ adges," she whispered urgently.
Harry looked questioningly at her, ut she shook her head warningly; Ron had just amled over
to them, looking lost and desperate.
"Good luck, Ron," said Hermione, standing on tiptoe and kissing him on the cheek. "And you,
Harry -"
Ron seemed to come to himself slightly as they walked ack across the Great Hall. He touched
the spot on his face where Hermione had kissed him, looking puzzled, as though he was not quite
sure what had just happened. He seemed too distracted to notice much around him, ut Harry
cast a curious glance at the crown-shaped adges as they passed the Slytherin tale, and this time
he made out the words etched on to them:
Weasley Is Our King
With an unpleasant feeling that this could mean nothing good, he hurried Ron across the
Entrance Hall, down the stone steps and out into the icy air.
The frosty grass crunched under their feet as they hurried down the sloping lawns towards the
stadium. There was no wind at all and the sky was a uniform pearly white, which meant that
visiility would e good without the drawack of direct sunlight in the eyes. Harry pointed out
these encouraging factors to Ron as they walked, ut he was not sure that Ron was listening.
Angelina had changed already and was talking to the rest of the team when they entered. Harry
and Ron pulled on their roes (Ron attempted to do his up ack-to-front for several minutes
efore Alicia took pity on him and went to help), then sat down to listen to the pre-match talk
while the ale of voices outside grew steadily louder as the crowd came pouring out of the
castle towards the pitch.
"Okay, I’ve only just found out the final line-up for Slytherin," said Angelina, consulting a piece of parchment. "Last year’s Beaters, Derrick and Bole, have left, ut it looks as though Montague’s replaced them with the usual gorillas, rather than anyone who can fly particularly well. They’re two lokes called Crae and goyle, I don’t know much aout them-"
"We do," said Harry and Ron together.
"Well, they don’t look right enough to tell one end of a room from the other," said Angelina,
pocketing her parchment, "ut then I was always surprised Derrick and Bole managed to find
their way on to the pitch without signposts."
"Crae and Goyle are in the same mould," Harry assured her.
They could hear hundreds of footsteps mounting the anked enches of the spectators’ stands.
Some people were singing, though Harry could not make out the words. He was starting to feel
nervous, ut he knew his utterflies were as nothing compared to Ron’s, who was clutching his
stomach and staring straight ahead again, his jaw set and his complexion pale grey.
"It’s time," said Angelina in a hushed voice, looking at her watch. "C’mon everyone... good
luck."
The team rose, shouldered their rooms and marched in single file out of the changing room and
into the dazzling sunlight. A roar of sound greeted them in which Harry could still hear singing,
though it was muffled y the cheers and whistles.
The Slytherin team was standing waiting for them. They, too, were wearing those silver crownshaped adges. The new Captain, Montague, was uilt along the same lines as Dudley Dursley, with massive forearms like hairy hams. Behind him lurked Crae and Goyle, almost as large, linking stupidly in the sunlight, swinging their new Beaters’ ats. Malfoy stood to one side, the sunlight gleaming on his white-lond head. He caught Harry’s eye and smirked, tapping the crown-shaped adge on his chest.
"Captains, shake hands," ordered the referee Madam Hooch, as Angelina and Montague reached
each other. Harry could tell that Montague was trying to crush Angelina’s fingers, though she did
not wince. "Mount your rooms..."
Madam Hooch placed her whistle in her mouth and lew.
The alls were released and the fourteen players shot upwards. Out of the corner of his eye Harry
saw Ron streak off towards the goal hoops. Harry zoomed higher, dodging a Bludger, and set off
on a wide lap of the pitch, gazing around for a glint of gold; on the other side of the stadium,
Draco Malfoy was doing exactly the same.
"And it’s Johnson - Johnson with the Quaffle, what a player that girl is, I’ve een saying it for
years ut she still won’t go out with me -"
"JORDAN!" yelled Professor McGonagall.
"- just a fun fact, Professor, adds a it of interest - and she’s ducked Warrington, she’s passed
Montague, she’s -- ouch - een hit from ehind y a Bludger from Crae... Montague catches
the Quaffle, Montague heading ack up the pitch and - nice Bludger there from George Weasley,
that’s a Bludger to the head for Montague, he drops the Quaffle, caught y Katie Bell, Katie Bell
of Gryffindor reverse-passes to Alicia Spinnet and Spinnet’s away -"
Lee Jordan’s commentary rang through the stadium and Harry listened as hard as he could
through the wind whistling in his ears and the din of the crowd, all yelling and ooing and
singing.
"- dodges Warrington, avoids a Bludger - close call, Alicia - and the crowd are loving this, just
listen to them, what’s that they’re singing?"
And as Lee paused to listen, the song rose loud and clear from the sea of green and silver in the
Slytherin section of the stands:
"Weasley cannot save a thing, He cannot lock a single ring, That’s why Slytherins all sing:
Weasley is our King."
"Weasley was orn in a in He always lets the Quaffle in Weasley will make sure we win
Weasley is our King."
"--and Alicia passes ack to Angelina!" Lee shouted, and as Harry swerved, his insides oiling
at what he had just heard, he knew Lee was trying to drown out the words of the song. "Come on
now, Angelina -- looks like she’s got just the Keeper to eat! - SHE SHOOTS - SHE - aaaah..."
Bletchley, the Slytherin Keeper, had saved the goal; he threw the Quaffle to Warrington who
sped off with it, zig-zagging in etween Alicia and Katie; the singing from elow grew louder
and louder as he drew nearer and nearer Ron.
"Weasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He always lets the Quaffle in Weasley is our King."
Harry could not help himself: aandoning his search for the Snitch, he wheeled around to watch
Ron, a lone figure at the far end of the pitch, hovering efore the three goal hoops while the
massive Warrington pelted towards him.
"- and it’s Warrington with the Quaffle, Warrington heading for goal, he’s out of Bludger range
with just the Keeper ahead -"
A great swell of song rose from the Slytherin stands elow:
"Weasley cannot save a thing, He cannot lock a single ring..."
"- so it’s the first test for new Gryffindor Keeper Weasley, rother of Beaters Fred and George,
and a promising new talent on the team - come on, Ron!"
But the scream of delight came from the Slytherins’ end: Ron had dived wildly, his arms wide,
and the Quaffle had soared etween them straight through Ron’s central hoop.
"Slytherin score!" came Lee’s voice amid the cheering and ooing from the crowds elow, "so
that’s ten-nil to Slytherin - ad luck, Ron."
The Slytherins sang even louder:
"WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN, HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN..."
"- and Gryffindor ack in possession and it’s Katie Bell tanking up the pitch -" cried Lee
valiantly, though the singing was now so deafening that he could hardly make himself heard
aove it.
"WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN WEASLEY IS OUR KING..."
"Harry, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?" screamed Angelina, soaring past him to keep up with
Katie. "GET GOING!"
Harry realized he had een stationary in midair for over a minute, watching the progress of the
match without sparing a thought for the whereaouts of the Snitch; horrified, he went into a dive
and started circling the pitch again, staring around, trying to ignore the chorus now thundering
through the stadium:
"WEASLEY IS OUR KING, WEASLEY IS OUR KING..."
There was no sign of the Snitch anywhere he looked; Malfoy was still circling the stadium just as
he was. They passed one another midway around the pitch, going in opposite directions, and
Harry heard Malfoy singing loudly:
"WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN..."
"--and it’s Warrington again," ellowed Lee, "who passes to Pucey, Pucey’s off past Spinnet,
come on now, Angelina, you can take him - turns out you can’t - ut nice Bludger from Fred
Weasley, I mean, George Weasley, oh, who cares, one of them, anyway, and Warrington drops
the Quaffle and Katie Bell -- er - drops it, too - so that’s Montague with the Quaffle, Slytherin
Captain Montague takes the Quaffle and he’s off up the pitch, come on now, Gryffindor, lock
him!"
Harry zoomed around the end of the stadium ehind the Slytherin goal hoops, willing himself not
to look at what was going on at Ron’s end. As he sped past the Slytherin Keeper, he heard
Bletchley singing along with the crowd elow:
"WEASLEY CANNOT SAVE A THING..."
"- and Pucey’s dodged Alicia again and he’s heading straight for goal, stop it, Ron!"
Harry did not have to look to see what had happened: there was a terrile groan from the
Gryffindor end, coupled with fresh screams and applause from the Slytherins. Looking down,
Harry saw the pug-faced Pansy Parkinson right at the front of the stands, her ack to the pitch as
she conducted the Slytherin supporters who were roaring:
"THAT’S WHY SLYTHERINS ALL SING WEASLEY ISOUR KING."
But twenty-nil was nothing, there was still time for Gryffindor to catch up or catch the Snitch. A
few goals and they would e in the lead as usual, Harry assured himself, oing and weaving
through the other players in pursuit of something shiny that turned out to e Montague’s
watchstrap.
But Ron let in two more goals. There was an edge of panic in Harry’s desire to find the Snitch
now. If he could just get it soon and finish the game quickly.
"- and Katie Bell of Gryffindor dodges Pucey, ducks Montague, nice swerve, Katie, and she
throws to Johnson, Angelina Johnson takes the Quaffle, she’s past Warrington, she’s heading for
goal, come on now, Angelina - GRYFFINDOR SCORE! It’s forty-ten, forty-ten to Slytherin and
Pucey has the Quaffle"
Harry could hear Luna’s ludicrous lion hat roaring amidst the Gryffindor cheers and felt
heartened; only thirty points in it, that was nothing, they could pull ack easily. Harry ducked a
Bludger that Crae had sent rocketing in his direction and resumed his frantic scouring of the
pitch for the Snitch, keeping one eye on Malfoy in case he showed signs of having spotted it, ut
Malfoy, like him, was continuing to soar around the stadium, searching fruitlessly...
"-- Pucey throws to Warrington, Warrington to Montague, Montague ack to Pucey -Johnson
intervenes, Johnson takes the Quaffle, Johnson to Bell, this looks good - I mean ad - Bells hit
y a Bludger from Goyle of Slytherin and it’s Pucey in possession"
"WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN, HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN"
"WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN"
But Harry had seen it at last: the tiny fluttering Golden Snitch was hovering feet from the ground
at the Slytherin end of the pitch.
He dived...
In a matter of seconds, Malfoy was streaking out of the sky on Harry’s left, a green and silver
lur lying flat on his room...
The Snitch skirted the foot of one of the goal hoops and scooted off towards the other side of the
stands; its change of direction suited Malfoy, who was nearer; Harry pulled his Fireolt around,
he and Malfoy were now neck and neck...
Feet from the ground, Harry lifted his right hand from his room, stretching towards the
Snitch... to his right, Malfoy’s arm extended too, was reaching, groping...
It was over in two reathless, desperate, windswept seconds - Harry’s fingers closed around the
tiny, struggling all - Malfoy’s fingernails scraled the ack of Harrys hand hopelessly - Harry
pulled his room upwards, holding the struggling all in his hand and the Gryffindor spectators
screamed their approval...
They were saved, it did not matter that Ron had let in those goals, noody would rememer as
long as Gryffindor had won -
WHAM.
A Bludger hit Harry squarely in the small of the ack and he flew forwards off his room.
Luckily he was only five or six feet aove the ground, having dived so low to catch the Snitch,
ut he was winded all the same as he landed flat on his ack on the frozen pitch. He heard
Madam Hooch’s shrill whistle, an uproar in the stands compounded of catcalls, angry yells and
jeering, a thud, then Angelinas frantic voice.
"Are you all right?"
"Course I am," said Harry grimly, taking her hand and allowing her to pull him to his feet.
Madam Hooch was zooming towards one of the Slytherin players aove him, though he could
not see who it was from this angle.
"It was that thug Crae," said Angelina angrily, "he whacked the Bludger at you the moment he saw you’d got the Snitch - ut we won, Harry, we won!"
Harry heard a snort from ehind him and turned around, still holding the Snitch tightly in his
hand: Draco Malfoy had landed close y. White-faced with fury, he was still managing to sneer.
"Saved Weasley’s neck, haven’t you?" he said to Harry. "I’ve never seen a worse Keeper... ut
then he was orn in a in... did you like my lyrics, Potter?"
Harry didn’t answer. He turned away to meet the rest of the team who were now landing one y
one, yelling and punching the air in triumph; all except Ron, who had dismounted from his
room over y the goalposts and seemed to e making his way slowly ack to the changing
rooms alone.
"We wanted to write another couple of verses!" Malfoy called, as Katie and Alicia hugged Harry. "But we couldn’t find rhymes for fat and ugly - we wanted to sing aout his mother, see-"
"Talk aout sour grapes," said Angelina, casting Malfoy a disgusted look.
"- we couldn’t fit in useless loser either - for his father, you know -"
Fred and George had realized what Malfoy was talking aout. Halfway through shaking Harry’s
hand, they stiffened, looking round at Malfoy.
"Leave it!" said Angelina at once, taking Fred y the arm. "Leave it, Fred, let him yell, he’s just
sore he lost, the jumped-up little -"
"- ut you like the Weasleys, don’t you, Potter?" said Malfoy, sneering. "Spend holidays there
and everything, don’t you? Can’t see how you stand the stink, ut I suppose when you’ve een
dragged up y Muggles, even the Weasleys’ hovel smells okay -"
Harry graed hold of George. Meanwhile, it was taking the comined efforts of Angelina,
Alicia and Katie to stop Fred leaping on Malfoy, who was laughing openly. Harry looked around
for Madam Hooch, ut she was still erating Crae for his illegal Sludger attack.
"Or perhaps," said Malfoy, leering as he acked away, "you can rememer what your mother’s
house stank like, Potter, and Weasleys pigsty reminds you of it --"
Harry was not aware of releasing George, all he knew was that a second later oth of them were
sprinting towards Malfoy. He had completely forgotten that all the teachers were watching: all he
wanted to do was cause Malfoy as much pain as possile; with no time to draw out his wand, he
merely drew ack the fist clutching the Snitch and sank it as hard as he could into Malfoys
stomach -
"Harry! HARRY! GEORGE! NO"
He could hear girls’ voices screaming, Malfoy yelling, George swearing, a whistle lowing and
the ellowing of the crowd around him, ut he did not care. Not until someody in the vicinity
yelled "Impedimenta!" and he was knocked over ackwards y the force of the spell, did he
aandon the attempt to punch every inch of Malfoy he could reach.
"What do you think you’re doing?" screamed Madam Hooch, as Harry leapt to his feet. It seemed to have een her who had hit him with the Impediment Jinx; she was holding her whistle
in one hand and a wand in the other; her room lay aandoned several feet away. Malfoy was curled up on the ground, whimpering and moaning, his nose loody; George was sporting a swollen lip; Fred was still eing forcily restrained y the three Chasers, and Crae was cackling in the ackground. "I’ve never seen ehavior like it - ack up to the castle, oth of you, and straight to your Head of House’s office! Go! Now."
Harry and George turned on their heels and marched off the pitch, oth panting, neither saying a
word to the other. The howling and jeering of the crowd grew fainter and fainter until they
reached the Entrance Hall, where they could hear nothing except the sound of their own
footsteps. Harry ecame aware that something was still struggling in his right hand, the knuckles
of which he had ruised against Malfoy’s jaw. Looking down, he saw the Snitch’s silver wings
protruding from etween his fingers, struggling for release.
They had arely reached the door of Professor McGonagall’s office when she came marching
along the corridor ehind them. She was wearing a Gryffindor scarf, ut tore it from her throat
with shaking hands as she strode towards them, looking livid.
"In!" she said furiously, pointing to the door. Harry and George entered. She strode around
ehind her desk and faced them, quivering with rage as she threw the Gryffindor scarf aside on
to the floor.
"Well?" she said. "I have never seen such a disgraceful exhiition. Two on one! Explain
yourselves!"
"Malfoy provoked us," said Harry stiffly.
"Provoked you?" shouted Professor McGonagall, slamming a fist on to her desk so that her tartan tin slid sideways off it and urst open, littering the floor with Ginger Newts. "He’d just lost, hadn’t he? Of course he wanted to provoke you! But what on earth he can have said that justified what you two --"
"He insulted my parents," snarled George. "And Harry’s mother."
"But instead of leaving it to Madam Hooch to sort out, you two decided to give an exhiition of
Muggle dueling, did you?" ellowed Professor McGonagall. "Have you any idea what you’ve -
?"
"Hem, hem."
Harry and George oth wheeled round. Dolores Umridge was standing in the doorway wrapped
in a green tweed cloak that greatly enhanced her resemlance to a giant toad, and was smiling in
the horrile, sickly, ominous way that Harry had come to associate with imminent misery.
"May I help, Professor McGonagall?" asked Professor Umridge in her most poisonously sweet
voice.
Blood rushed into Professor McGonagall’s face.
"Help?" she repeated, in a constricted voice. "What do you mean, help?"
Professor Umridge moved forwards into the office, still smiling her sickly smile.
"Why, I thought you might e grateful for a little extra authority"
Harry would not have een surprised to see sparks fly from Professor McGonagall’s nostrils.
"You thought wrong," she said, turning her ack on Umridge.
"Now, you two had etter listen closely. I do not care what provocation Malfoy offered you, I do
not care if he insulted every family memer you possess, your ehavior was disgusting and I
am giving each of you a week’s worth of detentions! Do not look at me like that, Potter, you
deserve it! And if either of you ever -"
"Hem, hem."
Professor McGonagall closed her eyes as though praying for patience as she turned her face
towards Professor Umridge again.
"Yes?"
"I think they deserve rather more than detentions," said Umridge, smiling still more roadly.
Professor McGonagall’s eyes flew open.
"But unfortunately" she said, with an attempt at a reciprocal smile that made her look as though
she had lockjaw, "it is what I think that counts, as they are in my House, Dolores."
"Well, actually, Minerva," simpered Professor Umridge, "I think you’ll find that what I
think does count. Now, where is it? Cornelius just sent it... I mean," she gave a false little laugh
as she rummaged in her handag, "the Minister just sent it... ah yes..."
She had pulled out a piece of parchment which she now unfurled, clearing her throat fussily
efore starting to read what it said.
"Hem, hem... ‘Educational Decree Numer Twenty-five’."
"Not another one!" exclaimed Professor McGonagall violently.
"Well, yes," said Umridge, still smiling. "As a matter of fact, Minerva, it was you who made me see that we needed a further amendment... you rememer how you overrode me, when I was
unwilling to allow the Gryffindor Quidditch team to re-form? How you took the case to
Dumledore, who insisted that the team e allowed to play? Well, now, I couldn’t have that. I
contacted the Minister at once, and he quite agreed with me that the High Inquisitor has to have
the power to strip pupils of privileges, or she - that is to say, I - would have less authority than
common teachers! And you see now, don’t you, Minerva, how right I was in attempting to stop
the Gryffindor team re-forming? Dreadful tempers... anyway, I was reading out our
amendment... hem, hem... ‘High Inquisitor will henceforth have supreme authority over all
punishments, sanctions and removal of privileges pertaining to the students of Hogwarts, and the
power to alter such punishments, sanctions and removals of privileges as may have een ordered
y other staff memers. Signed, Cornelius Fudge, Minister for Magic, Order of Merlin First
Class, etc., etc.’"
She rolled up the parchment and put it ack into her handag, still smiling.
"So... I really think I will have to an these two from playing Quidditch ever again," she said,
looking from Harry to George and ack again.
Harry felt the Snitch fluttering madly in his hand.
"Ban us?" he said, and his voice sounded strangely distant. "From playing... ever again?"
"Yes, Mr. Potter, I think a lifelong an ought to do the trick," said Umridge, her smile widening
still further as she watched him struggle to comprehend what she had said. "You and Mr. Weasley here. And I think, to e safe, this young man’s twin ought to e stopped, too - if his teammates had not restrained him, I feel sure he would have attacked young Mr. Malfoy as well. I will want their roomsticks confiscated, of course; I shall keep them safely in my office, to make sure there is no infringement of my an. But I am not unreasonale, Professor McGonagall," she continued, turning ack to Professor McGonagall who was now standing as still as though carved from ice, staring at her. "The rest of the team can continue playing, I saw no signs of violence from any of them. Well... good afternoon to you."
And with a look of the utmost satisfaction, Umridge left the room, leaving a horrified silence in
her wake.
"Banned," said Angelina in a hollow voice, late that evening in the common room. "Banned. No
Seeker and no Beaters... what on earth are we going to do?"
It did not feel as though they had won the match at all. Everywhere Harry looked there were
disconsolate and angry faces; the team themselves were slumped around the fire, all apart from
Ron, who had not een seen since the end of the match.
"It’s just so unfair," said Alicia numly. "I mean, what aout Crae and that Bludger he hit after the whistle had een lown? Has she anned him?"
"No," said Ginny miseraly; she and Hermione were sitting on either side of Harry. "He just got
lines, I heard Montague laughing aout it at dinner."
"And anning Fred when he didn’t even do anything!" said Alicia furiously, pummeling her
knee with her fist.
"It’s not my fault I didn’t," said Fred, with a very ugly look on his face, "I would’ve pounded the
little scumag to a pulp if you three hadn’t een holding me ack."
Harry stared miseraly at the dark window. Snow was falling. The Snitch he had caught earlier
was now zooming around and around the common room; people were watching its progress as
though hypnotized and Crookshanks was leaping from chair to chair, trying to catch it.
"I’m going to ed," said Angelina, getting slowly t o her feet. "Maye this will all turn out to have een a ad dream... maye I’ll wake up tomorrow and find we haven’t played yet..."
She was soon followed y Alicia and Katie. Fred and George sloped off to ed some time later,
glowering at everyone they passed, and Ginny went not long after that. Only Harry and
Hermione were left eside the fire.
"Have you seen Ron?" Hermione asked in a low voice.
Harry shook his head.
"I think he’s avoiding us," said Hermione. "Where d o you think he -?"
But at that precise moment, there was a creaking sound ehind them as the Fat Lady swung
forwards and Ron came clamering through the portrait hole. He was very pale indeed and there
was snow in his hair. When he saw Harry and Hermione, he stopped dead in his tracks.
"Where have you een?" said Hermione anxiously, springing up.
"Walking," Ron mumled. He was still wearing his Quidditch things.
"You look frozen," said Hermione. "Come and sit down!"
Ron walked to the fireside and sank into the chair furthest from Harry’s, not looking at him. The
stolen Snitch zoomed over their heads.
"I’m sorry," Ron mumled, looking at his feet.
"What for?" said Harry.
"For thinking I can play Quidditch," said Ron. "I’m going to resign first thing tomorrow."
"If you resign," said Harry testily, "there’ll only e three players left on the team." And when Ron looked puzzled, he said, "I’ve een given a lifetime an. So’ve Fred and George."
"What?" Ron yelped.
Hermione told him the full story; Harry could not ear to tell it again. When she had finished,
Ron looked more anguished than ever.
"This is all my fault -"
"You didn’t make me punch Malfoy," said Harry angrily.
"- if I wasn’t so terrile at Quidditch -"
"- it’s got nothing to do with that."
"- it was that song that wound me up -"
"- it would’ve wound anyone up."
Hermione got up and walked to the window, away from the argument, watching the snow
swirling down against the pane.
"Look, drop it, will you!" Harry urst out. "It’s ad enough, without you laming yourself for
everything!"
Ron said nothing ut sat gazing miseraly at the damp hem of his roes. After a while he said in
a dull voice, "This is the worst I’ve ever felt in my life."
"Join the clu," said Harry itterly.
"Well," said Hermione, her voice tremling slightly. "I can think of one thing that might cheer
you oth up."
"Oh yeah?" said Harry skeptically.
"Yeah," said Hermione, turning away from the pitch-lack, snow-flecked window, a road smile
spreading across her face. "Hagrids ack."
CHAPTER TWENTY
Hagrid’s Tale
Harry sprinted up to the oys’ dormitories to fetch the Invisiility Cloak and the Marauder’s
Map from his trunk; he was so quick that he and Ron were ready to leave at least five minutes
efore Hermione hurried ack down from the girls’ dormitories, wearing scarf, gloves and one of
her own knoly elf hats.
"Well, it’s cold out there!" she said defensively, as Ron clicked his tongue impatiently.
They crept through the portrait hole and covered themselves hastily in the Cloak - Ron had
grown so much he now needed to crouch to prevent his feet showing - then, moving slowly and
cautiously, they proceeded down the many staircases, pausing at intervals to check on the map
for signs of Filch or Mrs. Norris. They were lucky; they saw noody ut Nearly Headless Nick,
who was gliding along asent-mindedly humming something that sounded horrily like
Weasley is our King. They crept across the Entrance Hall and out into the silent, snowy
grounds. With a great leap of his heart, Harry saw little golden squares of light ahead and smoke
coiling up from Hagrid’s chimney. He set off at a quick march, the other two jostling and
umping along ehind him. They crunched excitedly through the thickening snow until at last
they reached the wooden front door. When Harry raised his fist and knocked three times, a dog
started arking frantically inside.
"Hagrid, its us!" Harry called through the keyhole.
"Shoulda known!" said a gruff voice.
They eamed at each other under the Cloak; they could tell y Hagrid’s voice that he was
pleased. "Bin home three seconds... out the way, Fang... out the way, yeh dozy dog..."
The olt was drawn ack, the door creaked open and Hagrid’s head appeared in the gap.
Hermione screamed.
"Merlin’s eard, keep it down!" said Hagrid hastily, staring wildly over their heads. "Under that
Cloak, are yeh? Well, get in, get in!"
"I’m sorry!" Hermione gasped, as the three of them squeezed past Hagrid into the house and
pulled the Cloak off themselves so he could see them. "I just - oh, Hagrid!"
"It’s nuthin’, it’s nuthin’!" said Hagrid hastily, shutting the door ehind them and hurrying to
close all the curtains, ut Hermione continued to gaze up at him in horror.
Hagrid’s hair was matted with congealed lood and his left eye had een reduced to a puffy slit
amid a mass of purple and lack ruising. There were many cuts on his face and hands, some of
them still leeding, and he was moving gingerly, which made Harry suspect roken ris. It was
ovious that he had only just got home; a thick lack traveling cloak lay over the ack of a chair
and a haversack large enough to carry several small children leaned against the wall inside the
door. Hagrid himself, twice the size of a normal man, was now limping over to the fire and
placing a copper kettle over it.
"What happened to you?" Harry demanded, while Fang danced around them all, trying to lick
their faces.
"Told yeh, nuthin’," said Hagrid firmly. "Want a cuppa?"
"Come off it," said Ron, "you’re in a right state!"
"I’m tellin’ yeh, I’m fine," said Hagrid, straightening up and turning to eam at them all, ut
wincing. "Blimey, it’s good ter see yeh three again - had good summers, did yeh?"
"Hagrid, you’ve een attacked!" said Ron.
"Fer the las’ time, it’s nuthin’!" said Hagrid firmly.
"Would you say it was nothing if one of us turned up with a pound of mince instead of a face?"
Ron demanded.
"You ought to go and see Madam Pomfrey, Hagrid," said Hermione anxiously, "some of those
cuts look nasty."
"I’m dealin’ with it, all righ’?" said Hagrid repressively.
He walked across to the enormous wooden tale that stood in the middle of his cain and
twitched aside a tea towel that had een lying on it. Underneath was a raw, loody, green-tinged
steak slightly larger than the average car tire.
"You’re not going to eat that, are you, Hagrid?" said Ron, leaning in for a closer look. "It looks
poisonous."
"It’s s’posed ter look like that, it’s dragon meat," Hagrid said. "An’ I didn’ get it ter eat."
He picked up the steak and slapped it over the left side of his face. Greenish lood trickled down
into his eard as he gave a soft moan of satisfaction.
"Tha’s etter. It helps with the stingin’, yeh know."
"So, are you going to tell us what’s happened to you?" Harry asked.
"Can’t, Harry. Top secret. More’n me jo’s worth ter tell yeh that."
"Did the giants eat you up, Hagrid?" asked Hermione quietly.
Hagrid’s fingers slipped on the dragon steak and it slid squelchily on to his chest.
"Giants?" said Hagrid, catching the steak efore it reached his elt and slapping it ack over his
face, "who said anythin’ aou’ giants? Who yeh in talkin’ to? Who’s told yeh what I’ve - who’s
said I’ve in - eh?"
"We guessed," said Hermione apologetically.
"Oh, yeh did, did yeh?" said Hagrid, surveying her sternly with the eye that was not hidden y
the steak.
"It was kind of... ovious," said Ron. Harry nodded.
Hagrid glared at them, then snorted, threw the steak ack on to the tale and strode over to the
kettle, which was now whistling.
"Never known kids like you three fer knowin’ more’n yeh oughta," he muttered, splashing
oiling water into three of his ucket-shaped mugs. "An’ I’m not complimentin’ yeh, neither.
Nosy, some’d call it. Interferin’."
But his eard twitched.
"So you have een to look for giants?" said Harry, grinning as he sat down at the tale.
Hagrid set tea in front of each of them, sat down, picked up his steak again and slapped it ack
over his face.
"Yeah, all righ’," he grunted, "I have."
"And you found them?" said Hermione in a hushed voice.
"Well, they’re not that difficult ter find, ter e honest," said Hagrid. "Pretty ig, see."
"Where are they?" said Ron.
"Mountains," said Hagrid unhelpfully.
"So why don’t Muggles -?"
"They do," said Hagrid darkly. "On’y their deaths are always put down ter mountaineerin’
accidents, aren’ they?"
He adjusted the steak a little so that it covered the worst of the ruising.
"Come on, Hagrid, tell us what you’ve een up to!" said Ron. "Tell us aout eing attacked y the giants and Harry can tell you aout eing attacked y the Dementors -"
Hagrid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at the same time; a large quantity of spit, tea and
dragon lood was sprayed over the tale as Hagrid coughed and spluttered and the steak slid,
with a soft splat, on to the floor.
"Whadda yeh mean, attacked y Dementors?" growled Hagrid.
"Didn’t you know?" Hermione asked him, wide-eyed.
"I don’ know anythin’ that’s in happenin’ since I left. I was on a secret mission, wasn’ I, didn’
wan’ owls followin’ me all over the place - ruddy Dementors! Yeh’re not serious?"
"Yeah, I am, they turned up in Little Whinging and attacked my cousin and me, and then the
Ministry of Magic expelled me -"
"WHAT?"
"- and I had to go to a hearing and everything, ut tell us aout the giants first."
"You were expelled!"
"Tell us aout your summer and I’ll tell you aout mine."
Hagrid glared at him through his one open eye. Harry looked right ack, an expression of
innocent determination on his face.
"Oh, all righ’," Hagrid said in a resigned voice.
He ent down and tugged the dragon steak out of Fang’s mouth.
"Oh, Hagrid, don’t, it’s not hygien--" Hermione egan, ut Hagrid had already slapped the meat
ack over his swollen eye.
He took another fortifying gulp of tea, then said, "Well, we set off righ’ after term ended -"
"Madame Maxime went with you, then?" Hermione interjected.
"Yeah, tha’s righ’," said Hagrid, and a softened expression appeared on the few inches of face
that were not oscured y eard or green steak. "Yeah, it was jus’ the pair of us. An’ I’ll tell yeh
this, she’s not afraid of roughin’ it, Olympe. Yeh know, she’s a fine, well-dressed woman, an’
knowin’ where we was goin’ I wondered ‘ow she’d feel aou’ clamerin’ over oulders an’
sleepin’ in caves an’ tha’, u’ she never complained once."
"You knew where you were going?" Harry repeated. "You knew where the giants were?"
"Well, Dumledore knew, an’ he told us," said Hagrid.
"Are they hidden?" asked Ron. "Is it a secret, where they are?"
"Not really" said Hagrid, shaking his shaggy head. "It’s jus’ that mos’ wizards aren’ othered
where they are,’s long as it’s a good long way away. But where they are’s very difficult ter get
ter, fer humans anyway, so we needed Dumledore’s instructions. Took us aou’ a month ter get
there -"
"A month?" said Ron, as though he had never heard o f a journey lasting such a ridiculously long
time. "But - why couldn’t you just gra a Portkey or something?"
There was an odd expression in Hagrid’s unoscured eye as he surveyed Ron; it was almost
pitying.
"We’re ein’ watched, Ron," he said gruffly.
"What d’you mean?"
"Yeh don’ understand," said Hagrid. "The Ministry’s keepin’ an eye on Dumledore an’ anyone
they reckon’s in league with ‘im, an’ -"
"We know aout that," said Harry quickly keen to hear the rest of Hagrid’s story, "we know
aout the Ministry watching Dumledore -"
"So you couldn’t use magic to get there?" asked Ron, looking thunderstruck, "you had to act like
Muggles all the way?"
"Well, not exactly all the way" said Hagrid cagily. "We jus’ had ter e careful, ‘cause Olympe an’ me, we stick out a it --"
Ron made a stifled noise somewhere etween a snort and a sniff and hastily took a gulp of tea.
"- so we’re not hard ter follow. We was pretendin’ we was goin’ on holiday together, so we got
inter France an’ we made like we was headin’ fer where Olympes school is, ‘cause we knew we
was ein’ tailed y someone from the Ministry. We had to go slow, ‘cause I’m not really s’posed
ter use magic an’ we knew the Ministry’d e lookin’ fer a reason ter run us in. But we managed
ter give the erk tailin’ us the slip round aou’ Dee-John --"
"Ooooh, Dijon?" said Hermione excitedly. "I’ve een there on holiday, did you see -?"
She fell silent at the look on Ron’s face.
"We chanced a it o’ magic after that an’ it wasn’ a ad journey. Ran inter a couple o’ mad trolls
on the Polish order an’ I had a sligh’ disagreement with a vampire in a pu in Minsk, u’ apart
from tha’ couldn’t’a in smoother.
"An’ then we reached the place, an’ we started trekkin’ up through the mountains, lookin’ fer
signs of ‘em...
"We had ter lay off the magic once we got near ‘em. Partly ‘cause they don’ like wizards an’ we
didn’ want ter put their acks up too soon, an’ partly ‘cause Dumledore had warned us You-
Know-Who was ound ter e after the giants an’ all. Said it was odds on he’d sent a messenger
off ter them already. Told us ter e very careful of drawin’ attention ter ourselves as we got
nearer in case there was Death Eaters around."
Hagrid paused for a long draught of tea.
"Go on!" said Harry urgently.
"Found ‘em," said Hagrid aldly. "Went over a ridge one nigh’ an’ there they was, spread ou’
underneath us. Little fires urnin’ elow an’ huge shadows... it was like watchin’ its o’ the
mountain movin’."
"How ig are they?" asked Ron in a hushed voice.
"Bout twenty feet," said Hagrid casually. "Some o’ the igger ones mighta in twenty-five."
"And how many were there?" asked Harry.
"I reckon aou’ seventy or eighty," said Hagrid.
"Is that all?" said Hermione.
"Yep," said Hagrid sadly, "eighty left, an’ there was loads once, musta in a hundred diff’rent
tries from all over the world. Bu’ they’ve in dyin’ out fer ages. Wizards killed a few, o’
course, u’ mostly they killed each other, an’ now they’re dyin’ out faster than ever. They’re not
made ter live unched up together like tha’. Dumledore says it’s our fault, it was the wizards
who forced ‘em to go an’ made ‘em live a good long way from us an’ they had no choice u’ ter
stick together fer their own protection."
"So," said Harry, "you saw them and then what?"
"Well, we waited till morning, didn’ want ter go sneakin’ up on ‘em in the dark, fer our own
safety," said Hagrid. "Bout three in the mornin’ they fell asleep jus’ where they was sittin’. We
didn’ dare sleep. Fer one thing, we wanted ter make sure none of ‘em woke up an’ came up
where we were, an’ fer another, the snorin’ was unelievale. Caused an avalanche near
mornin’.
"Anyway, once it was light we wen’ down ter see ‘em."
"Just like that?" said Ron, looking awestruck. "You just walked right into a giant camp?"
"Well, Dumledore’d told us how ter do it," said Hagrid. "Give the Gurg gifts, show some
respect, yeh know."
"Give the what gifts?" asked Harry.
"Oh, the Gurg - means the chief."
"How could you tell which one was the Gurg?" asked Ron.
Hagrid grunted in amusement.
"No prolem," he said. "He was the iggest, the ugliest an’ the laziest. Sittin’ there waitin’ ter e
rought food y the others. Dead goats an’ such like. Name o’ Karkus. I’d put him at twenty-two, twenty-three feet an’ the weight o’ a couple o’ ull elephants. Skin like rhino hide an’ all."
"And you just walked up to him?" said Hermione reathlessly.
"Well... down ter him, where he was lyin’ in the valley. They was in this dip etween four pretty
high mountains, see, eside a mountain lake, an’ Karkus was lyin’ y the lake roarin’ at the
others ter feed him an’ his wife. Olympe an’ I went down the mountainside -"
"But didn’t they try and kill you when they saw you?" asked Ron incredulously.
"It was def’nitely on some o’ their minds," said Ha grid, shrugging, "ut we did what Dumledore told us ter do, which was ter hold our gift up high an’ keep our eyes on the Gurg an’ ignore the others. So tha’s what we did. An’ the rest of ‘em went quiet an’ watched us pass an’ we got right up ter Karkus’s feet an’ we owed an’ put our present down in front o’ him."
"What do you give a giant?" asked Ron eagerly. "Food?"
"Nah, he can get food all righ’ fer himself," said Hagrid. "We took him magic. Giants like magic, jus’ don’ like us usin’ it against ‘em. Anyway, that firs’ day we gave ‘im a ranch o’ Guraithian fire."
Hermione said, "Wow!" softly, ut Harry and Ron oth frowned in puzzlement.
"A ranch of -?"
"Everlasting fire," said Hermione irritaly, "you ought to know that y now. Professor Flitwick’s
mentioned it at least twice in class!"
"Well, anyway," said Hagrid quickly, intervening efore Ron could answer ack, "Dumledore’d ewitched this ranch to urn fer evermore, which isn’ somethin’ any wizard could do, an’ so I lies it down in the snow y Karkus’s feet and says, ‘A gift to the Gurg of the giants from Alus Dumledore, who sends his respectful greetings.’"
"And what did Karkus say?" asked Harry eagerly.
"Nothin’," said Hagrid. "Didn’ speak English."
"You’re kidding!"
"Didn’ matter," said Hagrid imperturaly, "Dumledore had warned us tha’ migh’ happen.
Karkus knew enough to yell fer a couple o’ giants who knew our lingo an’ they translated fer us."
"And did he like the present?" asked Ron.
"Oh yeah, it went down a storm once they understood what it was," said Hagrid, turning his
dragon steak over to press the cooler side to his swollen eye. "Very pleased. So then I said,
Dumledore asks the Gurg to speak with his messenger when he returns tomorrow with another
gift."
"Why couldn’t you speak to them that day?" asked Hermione.
"Dumledore wanted us ter take it very slow," said Hagrid. "Let ‘em see we kept our
promises. We’ll come ack tomorrow with another present, an’ then we do come ack with
another present - gives a good impression, see? An’ gives them time ter test out the firs’ present
an’ find out it’s a good one, an’ get ‘em eager fer more. In any case, giants like Karkus -
overload ‘em with information an’ they’ll kill yeh jus’ to simplify things. So we owed outta the
way an’ went off an’ found ourselves a nice little cave ter spend that night in an’ the followin’
mornin’ we went ack an’ this time we found Karkus sittin’ up waitin’ fer us lookin’ all eager."
"And you talked to him?"
"Oh yeah. Firs’ we presented him with a nice attle helmet -golin-made an’ indestructile, yeh
know - an’ then we sat down an’ we talked."
"What did he say?"
"Not much," said Hagrid. "Listened mostly. Bu’ there were good signs. He’d heard o’
Dumledore, heard he’d argued against the killin’ o’ the last giants in Britain. Karkus seemed ter
e quite int’rested in what Dumledore had ter say. An’ a few o’ the others, ‘specially the ones
who had some English, they gathered round an’ listened too. We were hopeful when we left that
day. Promised ter come ack next mornin’ with another present...
"Bu’ that night it all wen’ wrong."
"What d’you mean?" said Ron quickly.
"Well, like I say, they’re not meant ter live together, giants," said Hagrid sadly. "Not in ig
groups like that. They can’ help themselves, they half kill each other every few weeks. The men
fight each other an’ the women fight each other; the remnants of the old tries fight each other,
an’ that’s even without squales over food an’ the est fires an’ sleepin’ spots. Yeh’d think,
seein’ as how their whole race is aou’ finished, they’d lay off each other, u’..."
Hagrid sighed deeply.
"That night a fight roke out, we saw it from the mouth of our cave, lookin’ down on the valley.
Went on fer hours, yeh wouldn’ elieve the noise. An’ when the sun came up the snow was
scarlet an’ his head was lyin’ at the ottom o’ the lake."
"Whose head?" gasped Hermione.
"Karkus’s," said Hagrid heavily. "There was a new Gurg, Golgomath." He sighed deeply.
"Well, we hadn’ argained on a new Gurg two days after we’d made friendly contact with the firs’ one, an’ we had a funny feelin’ Golgomath wouldn’ e so keen ter listen to us, u’ we had ter try."
"You went to speak to him?" asked Ron incredulously. "After you’d watched him rip off another
giant’s head?"
"Course we did," said Hagrid, "we hadn’ gone all that way ter give up after two days! We wen’
down with the next present we’d meant ter give ter Karkus.
"I knew it was no go efore I’d opened me mouth. He was sitting there wearin’ Karkus’s helmet,
leerin’ at us as we got nearer. He’s massive, one o’ the iggest ones there. Black hair an’
matchin’ teeth an’ a necklace o’ ones. Human-lookin’ ones, some of ‘em. Well, I gave it a go -
held out a great roll o’ dragon skin - an’ said, ‘gift fer the Gurg of the giants --’ Nex’ thing I
knew, I was hangin’ upside-down in the air y me feet, two of his mates had graed me."
Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth.
"How did you get out of that?" asked Harry.
"Wouldn’ta done if Olympe hadn’ in there," said Hagrid. "She pulled out her wand an’ did some o’ the fastes’ spellwork I’ve ever seen. Ruddy marvellous. Hit the two holdin’ me right in the eyes with Conjunctivitus Curses an’ they dropped me straightaway - u’ we were in troule then, ‘cause we’d used magic against ‘em, an’ that’s what giants hate aou’ wizards. We had ter leg it an’ we knew there was no way we was going ter e ale ter march inter the camp again."
"Blimey, Hagrid," said Ron quietly.
"So, how come it’s taken you so long to get home if you were only there for three days?" asked
Hermione.
"We didn’ leave after three days!" said Hagrid, looking outraged. "Dumledore was relyin’ on
us!"
"But you’ve just said there was no way you could go ack!"
"Not y daylight we couldn’, no. We just had ter rethink a it. Spent a couple o’ days lyin’ low
up in the cave an’ watchin’. An’ wha’ we saw wasn’ good."
"Did he rip off more heads?" asked Hermione, sounding squeamish.
"No," said Hagrid, "I wish he had."
"What d’you mean?"
"I mean we soon found out he didn’ oject ter all wizards - just us."
"Death Eaters?" said Harry quickly.
"Yep," said Hagrid darkly. "Couple of ‘em were visitin’ him ev’ry day, ringin’ gifts ter the
Gurg, an’ he wasn’ dangling them upside-down."
"How d’you know they were Death Eaters?" said Ron.
"Because I recognized one of ‘em," Hagrid growled. "Macnair, rememer him? Bloke they sent
ter kill Buckeak? Maniac, he is. Likes killin’ as much as Golgomath; no wonder they were
gettin’ on so well."
"So Macnairs persuaded the giants to join You-Know-Who?" said Hermione desperately.
"Hold yer Hippogriffs, I haven’ finished me story yet!" said Hagrid indignantly, who, considering he had not wanted to tell them anything in the first place, now seemed to e rather enjoying himself. "Me an’ Olympe talked it over an’ we agreed, jus’ ‘cause the Gurg looked like favorin’ You-Know-Who didn’ mean all of ‘em would. We had ter try an’ persuade some o’ the others, the ones who hadn’ wanted Golgomath as Gurg."
"How could you tell which ones they were?" asked Ron.
"Well, they were the ones ein’ eaten to a pulp, weren’ they?" said Hagrid patiently. "The ones
with any sense were keepin’ outta Golgomath’s way, hidin’ out in caves roun’ the gully jus’ like
we were. So we decided we’d go pokin’ round the caves y night an’ see if we couldn’ persuade
a few o’ them."
"You went poking around dark caves looking for giants?" said Ron, with awed respect in his
voice.
"Well, it wasn’ the giants who worried us most," said Hagrid. "We were more concerned aou’
the Death Eaters. Dumledore had told us efore we wen’ not ter tangle with ‘em if we could
avoid it, an’ the troule was they knew we was around -- ‘spect Golgomath told ‘em aou’ us.
At night, when the giants were sleepin’ an’ we wanted ter e creepin’ inter the caves, Macnair
an’ the other one were sneakin’ round the mountains lookin’ fer us. I was hard put to stop
Olympe jumpin’ out at ‘em," said Hagrid, the corners of his mouth lifting his wild eard, "she
was rarin’ ter attack ‘em... she’s somethin’ when she’s roused, Olympe... fiery, yeh know...
‘spect it’s the French in her..."
Hagrid gazed misty-eyed into the fire. Harry allowed him thirty seconds of reminiscence efore
clearing his throat loudly.
"So, what happened? Did you ever get near any of the other giants?"
"What? Oh... oh, yeah, we did. Yeah, on the third night after Karkus was killed we crept outta
the cave we’d in hidin’ in an’ headed ack down inter the gully, keepin’ our eyes skinned fer
the Death Eaters. Got inside a few o’ the caves, no go - then, in aou’ the sixth one, we found
three giants hidin’."
"Cave must’ve een cramped," said Ron.
"Wasn’ room ter swing a Kneazle," said Hagrid.
"Didn’t they attack you when they saw you?" asked Hermione.
"Proaly woulda done if they’d in in any condition," said Hagrid, "ut they was adly hurt, all
three o’ them; Golgomath’s lot had eaten ‘em unconscious; they’d woken up an’ crawled inter
the nearest shelter they could find. Anyway, one o’ them had a it of English an’ ‘e translated fer
the others, an’ what we had ter say didn’ seem ter go down too adly. So we kep’ goin’ ack,
visitin’ the wounded... I reckon we had aou’ six or seven o’ them convinced at one poin’."
"Six or seven?" said Ron eagerly. "Well that’s not ad - are they going to come over here and
start fighting You-Know-Who with us?"
But Hermione said, "What do you mean ‘one point’, Hagrid?"
Hagrid looked at her sadly.
"Golgomath’s lot raided the caves. The ones tha’ survived didn’ wan’ no more ter to do with us
after that."
"So... so there aren’t any giants coming?" said Ron, looking disappointed.
"Nope," said Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned over his steak and applied the cooler side
to his face, "ut we did wha’ we meant ter do, we g ave ‘em Dumledore’s message an’ some o’
them heard it an’ I spect some o’ them’ll rememer it. Jus’ maye, them that don’ want ter stay
around Golgomath’ll move outta the mountains, an’ there’s gotta e a chance they’ll rememer
Dumledore’s friendly to ‘em... could e they’ll come."
Snow was filling up the window now. Harry ecame aware that the knees of his roes were
soaked through: Fang was drooling with his head in Harry’s lap.
"Hagrid?" said Hermione quietly after a while.
"Mmm?"
"Did you... was there any sign of... did you hear anything aout your... your... mother while
you were there?"
Hagrid’s unoscured eye rested upon her and Hermione looked rather scared.
"I’m sorry... I... forget it -"
"Dead," Hagrid grunted. "Died years ago. They told me."
"Oh... I’m... I’m really sorry" said Hermione in a very small voice. Hagrid shrugged his massive shoulders.
"No need," he said shortly. "Can’t rememer her much. Wasn’ a great mother."
They were silent again. Hermione glanced nervously at Harry and Ron, plainly wanting them to
speak.
"But you still haven’t explained how you got in this state, Hagrid," Ron said, gesturing towards
Hagrid’s loodstained face.
"Or why you’re ack so late," said Harry. "Sirius says Madame Maxime got ack ages ago -"
"Who attacked you?" said Ron.
"I haven’ in attacked!" said Hagrid emphatically. "I -"
But the rest of his words were drowned in a sudden outreak of rapping on the door. Hermione
gasped; her mug slipped through her fingers and smashed on the floor; Fang yelped. All four of
them stared at the window eside the doorway. The shadow of someody small and squat rippled
across the thin curtain.
"It’s her!" Ron whispered.
"Get under here!" Harry said quickly; seizing the Invisiility Cloak, he whirled it over himself
and Hermione while Ron tore around the tale and dived under the Cloak as well. Huddled
together, they acked away into a corner. Fang was arking madly at the door. Hagrid looked
thoroughly confused.
"Hagrid, hide our mugs!"
Hagrid seized Harry and Ron’s mugs and shoved them under the cushion in Fang’s asket. Fang
was now leaping up at the door; Hagrid pushed him out of the way with his foot and pulled it
open.
Professor Umridge was standing in the doorway wearing her green tweed cloak and a matching
hat with earflaps. Lips pursed, she leaned ack so as to see Hagrid’s face; she arely reached his
navel.
"So," she said slowly and loudly, as though speaking to someody deaf. "You’re Hagrid, are
you?"
Without waiting for an answer she strolled into the room, her ulging eyes rolling in every
direction.
"Get away," she snapped, waving her handag at Fang, who had ounded up to her and was
attempting to lick her face.
"Er - I don’ want ter e rude," said Hagrid, staring at her, "ut who the ruddy hell are you?"
"My name is Dolores Umridge."
Her eyes were sweeping the cain. Twice they stared directly into the corner where Harry stood,
sandwiched etween Ron and Hermione.
"Dolores Umridge?" Hagrid said, sounding thoroughly confused. "I thought you were one o’
them Ministry - don’ you work with Fudge?"
"I was Senior Undersecretary to the Minister, yes," said Umridge, now pacing around the cain,
taking in every tiny detail within, from the haversack against the wall to the aandoned traveling
cloak. "I am now the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher -"
"Tha’s rave of yeh," said Hagrid, "there’s not many’d take tha’ jo any more."
"- and Hogwarts High Inquisitor," said Umridge, giving no sign that she had heard him.
"Wha’s that?" said Hagrid, frowning.
"Precisely what I was going to ask," said Umridge, pointing at the roken shards of china on the floor that had een Hermione’s mug.
"Oh," said Hagrid, with a most unhelpful glance towards the corner where Harry, Ron and
Hermione stood hidden, "oh, tha’ was... was Fang. He roke a mug. So I had ter use this one
instead."
Hagrid pointed to the mug from which he had een drinking, one hand still clamped over the
dragon steak pressed to his eye. Umridge stood facing him now, taking in every detail of his
appearance instead of the cain’s.
"I heard voices," she said quietly.
"I was talkin’ ter Fang," said Hagrid stoutly.
"And was he talking ack to you?"
"Well... in a manner o’ speakin’," said Hagrid, looking uncomfortale. "I sometimes say Fang’s
near enough human -"
"There are three sets of footprints in the snow leading from the castle doors to your cain," said
Umridge sleekly.
Hermione gasped; Harry clapped a hand over her mouth. Luckily, Fang was sniffing loudly
around the hem of Professor Umridge’s roes and she did not appear to have heard.
"Well, I on’y jus’ got ack," said Hagrid, waving an enormous hand at the haversack. "Maye
someone came ter call earlier an’ I missed ‘em."
"There are no footsteps leading away from your cain door."
"Well, I... I don’ know why that’d e..." said Hagrid, tugging nervously at his eard and again
glancing towards the corner where Harry, Ron and Hermione stood, as though asking for help.
"Erm..."
Umridge wheeled round and strode the length of the cain, looking around carefully. She ent
and peered under the ed. She opened Hagrid’s cupoards. She passed within two inches of
where Harry, Ron and Hermione stood pressed against the wall; Harry actually pulled in his
stomach as she walked y. After looking carefully inside the enormous cauldron Hagrid used for
cooking, she wheeled round again and said, "What has happened to you? How did you sustain
those injuries?"
Hagrid hastily removed the dragon steak from his face, which in Harrys opinion was a mistake,
ecause the lack and purple ruising all around his eye was now clearly visile, not to mention
the large amount of fresh and congealed lood on his face. "Oh, I... had a it of an accident," he
said lamely.
"What sort of accident?"
"I - I tripped."
"You tripped," she repeated coolly.
"Yeah, tha’s right. Over... over a friend’s roomstick. I don’ fly, meself. Well, look at the size o’
me, I don’ reckon there’s a roomstick that’d hold me. Friend o’ mine reeds Araxan horses, I
dunno if you’ve ever seen ‘em, ig easts, winged, yeh know, I’ve had a it of a ride on one o’
them an’ it was -"
"Where have you een?" asked Umridge, cutting coolly through Hagrid’s aling.
"Where’ve I -?"
"Been, yes," she said. "Term started two months ago. Another teacher has had to cover your
classes. None of your colleagues has een ale to give me any information as to your
whereaouts. You left no address. Where have you een?"
There was a pause in which Hagrid stared at her with his newly uncovered eye. Harry could
almost hear his rain working furiously.
"I - I’ve een away for me health," he said.
"For your health," repeated Professor Umridge. Her eyes traveled over Hagrid’s discolored
and swollen face; dragon lood dripped gently and silently on to his waistcoat. "I see."
"Yeah," said Hagrid, "it o’ - o’ fresh air, yeh know -"
"Yes, as gamekeeper fresh air must e so difficult to come y," said Umridge sweetly. The
small patch of Hagrid’s face that was not lack or purple, flushed.
"Well -- change o’ scene, yeh know -"
"Mountain scenery?" said Umridge swiftly.
She knows, Harry thought desperately.
"Mountains?" Hagrid repeated, clearly thinking fast. "Nope, South o’ France fer me. Bit o’ sun
an’... an’ sea."
"Really?" said Umridge. "You don’t have much of a tan."
"Yeah... well... sensitive skin," said Hagrid, attempting an ingratiating smile. Harry noticed that
two of his teeth had een knocked out. Umridge looked at him coldly; his smile faltered. Then
she hoisted her handag a little higher into the crook of her arm and said, "I shall, of course, e
informing the Minister of your late return."
"Righ’," said Hagrid, nodding.
"You ought to know, too, that as High Inquisitor it is my unfortunate ut necessary duty to
inspect my fellow teachers. So I daresay we shall meet again soon enough."
She turned sharply and marched ack to the door.
"You’re inspectin’ us?" Hagrid repeated lankly, looking after her.
"Oh, yes," said Umridge softly, looking ack at him with her hand on the door handle. "The
Ministry is determined to weed out unsatisfactory teachers, Hagrid. Goodnight."
She left, closing the door ehind her with a snap. Harry made to pull off the Invisiility Cloak
ut Hermione seized his wrist.
"Not yet," she reathed in his ear. "She might not e gone yet."
Hagrid seemed to e thinking the same way; he stumped across the room and pulled ack the
curtain an inch or so.
"She’s goin’ ack ter the castle," he said in a low voice. "Blimey... inspectin’ people, is she?"
"Yeah," said Harry, pulling off the Cloak. "Trelawney’s on proation already..."
"Um... what sort of thing are you planning to do with us in class, Hagrid?" asked Hermione.
"Oh, don’ you worry aou’ that, I’ve got a great load o’ lessons planned," said Hagrid
enthusiastically, scooping up his dragon steak from the tale and slapping it over his eye again.
"I’ve in keepin’ a couple o’ creatures saved fer yer OWL year; you wait, they’re somethin’
really special."
"Erm... special in what way?" asked Hermione tentatively.
"I’m not sayin’," said Hagrid happily. "I don’ wan t ter spoil the surprise."
"Look, Hagrid," said Hermione urgently, dropping all pretence, "Professor Umridge won’t e at all happy if you ring anything to class that’s too dangerous."
"Dangerous?" said Hagrid, looking genially emused. "Don’ e silly, I wouldn’ give yeh anythin’ dangerous! I mean, all righ’, they can look after themselves -"
"Hagrid, you’ve got to pass Umridge’s inspection, and to do that it would really e etter if she
saw you teaching us how to look after Porlocks, how to tell the difference etween Knarls and
hedgehogs, stuff like that!" said Hermione earnestly.
"But tha’s not very interestin’, Hermione," said Hagrid. "The stuff I’ve got’s much more
impressive. I’ve in ringin’ ‘em on fer years, I reckon I’ve got the on’y domestic herd in
Britain."
"Hagrid... please..." said Hermione, a note of real desperation in her voice. "Umridge is looking for any excuse to get rid of teachers she thinks are too close to Dumledore. Please, Hagrid, teach us something dull that’s ound to come up in our OWL."
But Hagrid merely yawned widely and cast a one-eyed look of longing towards the vast ed in
the corner.
"Lis’en, it’s in a long day an’ it’s late," he said, patting Hermione gently on the shoulder, so that her knees gave way and hit the floor with a thud. "Oh - sorry -" He pulled her ack up y the
neck of her roes. "Look, don’ you go worryin’ aou’ me, I promise yeh I’ve got really good
stuff planned fer yer lessons now I’m ack... now you lot had etter get ack up to the castle, an’
don’ forget ter wipe yer footprints out ehind yeh!"
"I dunno if you got through to him," said Ron a sho rt while later when, having checked that the
coast was clear, they walked ack up to the castle through the thickening snow, leaving no trace
ehind them due to the Oliteration Charm Hermione was performing as they went.
"Then I’ll go ack again tomorrow," said Hermione determinedly. "I’ll plan his lessons for him if I have to. I don’t care if she throws out Trelawney ut she’s not getting rid of Hagrid!"
CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
The Eye of the Snake
Hermione ploughed her way ack to Hagrid’s cain through two feet of snow on Sunday
morning. Harry and Ron wanted to go with her, ut their mountain of homework had reached an
alarming height again, so they remained grudgingly in the common room, trying to ignore the
gleeful shouts drifting up from the grounds outside, where students were enjoying themselves
skating on the frozen lake, toogganing and, worst of all, ewitching snowalls to zoom up to
Gryffindor Tower and rap hard on the windows.
"Oy!" ellowed Ron, finally losing patience and sticking his head out of the window, "I am a
prefect and if one more snowall hits this window - OUCH!"
He withdrew his head sharply, his face covered in snow.
"It’s Fred and George," he said itterly, slamming the window ehind him. "Gits..."
Hermione returned from Hagrid’s just efore lunch, shivering slightly, her roes damp to the
knees.
"So?" said Ron, looking up when she entered. "Got all his lessons planned for him?"
"Well, I tried," she said dully, sinking into a chair eside Harry. She pulled out her wand and
gave it a complicated little wave so that hot air streamed out of the tip; she then pointed this at
her roes, which egan to steam as they dried out. "He wasn’t even there when I arrived, I was
knocking for at least half an hour. And then he came stumping out of the Forest -"
Harry groaned. The Foridden Forest was teeming with the kind of creatures most likely to get
Hagrid the sack. "What’s he keeping in there? Did he say?" he asked.
"No," said Hermione miseraly. "He says he wants them to e a surprise. I tried to explain aout
Umridge, ut he just doesn’t get it. He kept saying noody in their right mind would rather
study Knarls than Chimaeras - oh, I don’t think he’s got a Chimaera," she added at the appalled
look on Harry and Ron’s faces, "ut that’s not for lack of trying, from what he said aout how
hard it is to get eggs. I don’t know how many times I told him he’d e etter off following
Gruly-Plank’s plan, I honestly don’t think he listened to half of what I said. He’s in a it of a
funny mood, you know. He still won’t say how he got all those injuries."
Hagrid’s reappearance at the staff tale at reakfast next day was not greeted y enthusiasm from
all students. Some, like Fred, George and Lee, roared with delight and sprinted up the aisle
etween the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tales to wring Hagrid’s enormous hand; others, like
Parvati and Lavender, exchanged gloomy looks and shook their heads. Harry knew that many of
them preferred Professor Gruly-Plank’s lessons, and the worst of it was that a very small,
uniased part of him knew that they had good reason: Gruly-Plank’s idea of an interesting
class was not one where there was a risk that someody might have their head ripped off.
It was with a certain amount of apprehension that Harry, Ron and Hermione headed down to
Hagrid’s on Tuesday, heavily muffled against the cold. Harry was worried, not only aout what
Hagrid might have decided to teach them, ut also aout how the rest of the class, particularly
Malfoy and his cronies, would ehave if Umridge was watching them.
However, the High Inquisitor was nowhere to e seen as they struggled through the snow
towards Hagrid, who stood waiting for them on the edge of the Forest. He did not present a
reassuring sight; the ruises that had een purple on Saturday night were now tinged with green
and yellow and some of his cuts still seemed to e leeding. Harry could not understand this: had
Hagrid perhaps een attacked y some creature whose venom prevented the wounds it inflicted
from healing? As though to complete the ominous picture, Hagrid was carrying what looked like
half a dead cow over his shoulder.
"We’re workin’ in here today!" Hagrid called happily to the approaching students, jerking his
head ack at the dark trees ehind him. "Bit more sheltered! Anyway, they prefer the dark."
"What prefers the dark?" Harry heard Malfoy say sharply to Crae and Goyle, a trace of panic
in his voice. "What did he say prefers the dark - did you hear?"
Harry rememered the only other occasion on which Malfoy had entered the Forest efore now;
he had not een very rave then, either. He smiled to himself; after the Quidditch match anything
that caused Malfoy discomfort was all right with him.
"Ready?" said Hagrid cheerfully, looking around at the class. "Right, well, I’ve in savin’ a trip
inter the Forest fer yer fifth year. Thought we’d go an’ see these creatures in their natural haitat.
Now, what we’re studyin’ today is pretty rare, I reckon I’m proaly the on’y person in Britain
who’s managed ter train ‘em."
"And you’re sure they’re trained, are you?" said Malfoy, the panic in his voice even more
pronounced. "Only it wouldn’t e the first time you’d rought wild stuff to class, would it?"
The Slytherins murmured agreement and a few Gryffindors looked as though they thought
Malfoy had a fair point, too.
"Course they’re trained," said Hagrid, scowling and hoisting the dead cow a little higher on his
shoulder.
"So what happened to your face, then?" demanded Malfoy.
"Mind yer own usiness!" said Hagrid, angrily. "Now, if yeh’ve finished askin’ stupid questions,
follow me!"
He turned and strode straight into the Forest. Noody seemed much disposed to follow. Harry
glanced at Ron and Hermione, who sighed ut nodded, and the three of them set off after Hagrid,
leading the rest of the class.
They walked for aout ten minutes until they reached a place where the trees stood so closely
together that it was as dark as twilight and there was no snow at all on the ground. With a grunt,
Hagrid deposited his half a cow on the ground, stepped ack and turned to face his class, most of
whom were creeping from tree to tree towards him, peering around nervously as though
expecting to e set upon at any moment.
"Gather roun’, gather roun’," Hagrid encouraged. "Now, they’ll e attracted y the smell o’ the
meat ut I’m goin’ ter give ‘em a call anyway, ‘cause they’ll like ter know it’s me."
He turned, shook his shaggy head to get the hair out of his face and gave an odd, shrieking cry
that echoed through the dark trees like the call of some monstrous ird. Noody laughed: most of
them looked too scared to make a sound.
Hagrid gave the shrieking cry again. A minute passed in which the class continued to peer
nervously over their shoulders and around trees for a first glimpse of whatever it was that was
coming. And then, as Hagrid shook his hair ack for a third time and expanded his enormous
chest, Harry nudged Ron and pointed into the lack space etween two gnarled yew trees.
A pair of lank, white, shining eyes were growing larger through the gloom and a moment later
the dragonish face, neck and then skeletal ody of a great, lack, winged horse emerged from the
darkness. It surveyed the class for a few seconds, swishing its long lack tail, then owed its
head and egan to tear flesh from the dead cow with its pointed fangs.
A great wave of relief roke over Harry. Here at last was proof that he had not imagined these
creatures, that they were real: Hagrid knew aout them too. He looked eagerly at Ron, ut Ron
was still staring around into the trees and after a few seconds he whispered, "Why doesn’t Hagrid call again?"
Most of the rest of the class were wearing expressions as confused and nervously expectant as
Ron’s and were still gazing everywhere ut at the horse standing feet from them. There were
only two other people who seemed to e ale to see them: a stringy Slytherin oy standing just
ehind Goyle was watching the horse eating with an expression of great distaste on his face; and
Neville, whose eyes were following the swishing progress of the long lack tail.
"Oh, an’ here comes another one!" said Hagrid proudly, as a second lack horse appeared out of
the dark trees, folded its leathery wings closer to its ody and dipped its head to gorge on the
meat. "Now... put yer hands up, who can see ‘em?"
Immensely pleased to feel that he was at last going to understand the mystery of these horses,
Harry raised his hand. Hagrid nodded at him.
"Yeah... yeah, I knew you’d e ale ter, Harry," he said seriously. "An’ you too, Neville, eh? An’ -"
"Excuse me," said Malfoy in a sneering voice, "ut what exactly are we supposed to e seeing?"
For an answer, Hagrid pointed at the cow carcass on the ground. The whole class stared at it for a
few seconds, then several people gasped and Parvati squealed. Harry understood why: its of
flesh stripping themselves away from the ones and vanishing into thin air had to look very odd
indeed.
"What’s doing it?" Parvati demanded in a terrified voice, retreating ehind the nearest tree.
"What’s eating it?"
"Thestrals," said Hagrid proudly and Hermione gave a soft "Oh!" of comprehension at Harry’s
shoulder. "Hogwarts has got a whole herd of ‘em in here. Now, who knows -?"
"But they’re really, really unlucky!" interrupted Parvati, looking alarmed. "They’re supposed to
ring all sorts of horrile misfortune on people who see them. Professor Trelawney told me once
-"
"No, no, no," said Hagrid, chuckling, "tha’s jus’ superstition, that is, they aren’ unlucky, they’re
dead clever an’ useful! Course, this lot don’ get a lot o’ work, it’s mainly jus’ pullin’ the school
carriages unless Dumledore’s takin’ a long journey an’ don’ want ter Apparate - an’ here’s
another couple, look -"
Two more horses came quietly out of the trees, one of them passing very close to Parvati, who
shivered and pressed herself closer to the tree, saying, "I think I felt something, I think it’s near
me!"
"Don’ worry, it won’ hurt yen," said Hagrid patiently. "Righ’, now, who can tell me why some o’ yeh can see ‘em an’ some can’t?"
Hermione raised her hand.
"Go on then," said Hagrid, eaming at her.
"The only people who can see Thestrals," she said, "are people who have seen death."
"Tha’s exactly right," said Hagrid solemnly, "ten points ter Gryffindor. Now, Thestrals -"
"Hem, hem."
Professor Umridge had arrived. She was standing a few feet away from Harry, wearing her
green hat and cloak again, her clipoard at the ready. Hagrid, who had never heard Umridge’s
fake cough efore, was gazing in some concern at the closest Thestral, evidently under the
impression that it had made the sound.
"Hem, hem."
"Oh, hello!" Hagrid said, smiling, having located the source of the noise.
"You received the note I sent to your cain this morning?" said Umridge, in the same loud, slow voice she had used with him earlier, as though she were addressing someody oth foreign and very slow. "Telling you that I would e inspecting y our lesson?"
"Oh, yeah," said Hagrid rightly. "Glad yeh found the place all righ’! Well, as you can see - or, I
dunno - can you? We’re doin’ Thestrals today -"
"I’m sorry?" said Professor Umridge loudly, cupping her hand around her ear and frowning.
"What did you say?"
Hagrid looked a little confused.
"Er - Thestrals!" he said loudly. "Big - er - winged horses, yeh know!"
He flapped his gigantic arms hopefully. Professor Umridge raised her eyerows at him and
muttered as she made a note on her clipoard: "Has... to... resort... to... crude...
sign... language."
"Well... anyway..." said Hagrid, turning ack to the class and looking slightly flustered, "erm...
what was I sayin’?"
"Appears... to... have... poor... short... term... memory," muttered Umridge, loudly enough
for everyone to hear her. Draco Malfoy looked as though Christmas had come a month early;
Hermione, on the other hand, had turned scarlet with suppressed rage.
"Oh, yeah," said Hagrid, throwing an uneasy glance at Umridge’s clipoard, ut ploughing on
valiantly. "Yeah, I was gonna tell yeh how come we got a herd. Yeah, so, we started off with a
male an’ five females. This one," he patted the fir st horse to have appeared, "name o’ Tenerus,
he’s my special favorite, firs’ one orn here in the Forest -"
"Are you aware," Umridge said loudly, interrupting him, "that the Ministry of Magic has
classified Thestrals as ‘dangerous’?"
Harry’s heart sank like a stone, ut Hagrid merely chuckled.
"Thestrals aren’ dangerous! All righ’, they might take a ite outta yeh if yeh really annoy them -"
"Shows... signs... of... pleasure... at... idea... of... violence," muttered Umridge, scriling
on her clipoard again.
"No - come on!" said Hagrid, looking a little anxious now. "I mean, a dog’ll ite if yeh ait it,
won’ it - ut Thestrals have jus’ got a ad reputation ecause o’ the death thing - people used ter
think they were ad omens, didn’ they? Jus’ didn’ understand, did they?"
Umridge did not answer; she finished writing her last note, then looked up at Hagrid and said,
again very loudly and slowly, "Please continue teaching as usual. I am going to walk," she
mimed walking (Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson were having silent fits of laughter) "among the
students" (she pointed around at individual memers of the class) "and ask them questions." She
pointed at her mouth to indicate talking.
Hagrid stared at her, clearly at a complete loss to understand why she was acting as though he
did not understand normal English. Hermione had tears of fury in her eyes now.
"You hag, you evil hag!" she whispered, as Umridge walked towards Pansy Parkinson. "I know
what you’re doing, you awful, twisted, vicious -"
"Erm... anyway," said Hagrid, clearly struggling to regain the flow of his lesson, "so - Thestrals.
Yeah. Well, there’s loads o’ good stuff aou’ them..."
"Do you find," said Professor Umridge in a ringing voice to Pansy Parkinson, "that you are ale
to understand Professor Hagrid when he talks?"
Just like Hermione, Pansy had tears in her eyes, ut these were tears of laughter; indeed, her
answer was almost incoherent ecause she was trying to suppress her giggles.
"No... ecause... well... it sounds... like grunting a lot of the time."
Umridge scriled on her clipoard. The few unruised its of Hagrid’s face flushed, ut he
tried to act as though he had not heard Pansy’s answer.
"Er... yeah... good stuff aou’ Thestrals. Well, once they’re tamed, like this lot, yeh’ll never e
lost again. ‘Mazin’ sense o’ direction, jus’ tell ‘em where yeh want ter go -"
"Assuming they can understand you, of course," said Malfoy loudly, and Pansy Parkinson
collapsed in a fit of renewed giggles. Professor Umridge smiled indulgently at them and then
turned to Neville.
"You can see the Thestrals, Longottom, can you?" she said.
Neville nodded.
"Who did you see die?" she asked, her tone indifferent.
"My... my grandad," said Neville.
"And what do you think of them?" she said, waving her stuy hand at the horses, who y now
had stripped a great deal of the carcass down to one.
"Erm," said Neville nervously, with a glance at Hagrid. "Well, they’re... er... okay..."
"Students... are... too... intimidated... to... admit... they... are... frightened," muttered
Umridge, making another note on her clipoard.
"No!" said Neville, looking upset. "No, I’m not scared of them!"
"It’s quite all right," said Umridge, patting Neville on the shoulder with what she evidently
intended to e an understanding smile, though it looked more like a leer to Harry. "Well, Hagrid," she turned to look up at him again, speaking once more in that loud, slow voice, "I think I’ve got enough to e getting along with. You will receive" (she mimed taking something from the air in front of her) "the results of your inspection" (she pointed at the clipoard) "in ten days’ time." She held up ten stuy little fingers, then, her smile wider and more toadlike than ever efore eneath her green hat, she ustled from their midst, leaving Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson in fits of laughter, Hermione actually shaking with fury and Neville looking confused and upset.
"That foul, lying, twisting old gargoyle!" stormed Hermione half an hour later, as they made their way ack up to the castle through the channels they had made earlier in the snow. "You see what she’s up to? It’s her thing aout half-reeds all over again - she’s trying to make out Hagrid’s some kind of dimwitted troll, just ecause he had a giantess for a mother - and oh, it’s not fair, that really wasn’t a ad lesson at all - I mean, all right, if it had een Blast-Ended Skrewts again, ut Thestrals are fine - in fact, for Hagrid, they’re really good!"
"Umridge said they’re dangerous," said Ron.
"Well, it’s like Hagrid said, they can look after themselves," said Hermione impatiently, "and I
suppose a teacher like Gruly-Plank wouldn’t usually show them to us efore NEWT level, ut,
well, they are very interesting, aren’t they? The way some people can see them and some can’t! I
wish I could."
"Do you?" Harry asked her quietly.
She looked suddenly horrorstruck.
"Oh, Harry - I’m sorry - no, of course I don’t - that was a really stupid thing to say."
"It’s okay," he said quickly, "don’t worry"
"I’m surprised so many people could see them," said Ron. "Three in a class -"
"Yeah, Weasley, we were just wondering," said a malicious voice. Unheard y any of them in the muffling snow, Malfoy, Crae and Goyle were walking along right ehind them. "D’you reckon if you saw someone snuff it you’d e ale to see the Quaffle etter?"
He, Crae and Goyle roared with laughter as they pushed past on their way to the castle, then
roke into a chorus of "Weasley is our King". Ron’s ears turned scarlet.
"Ignore them, just ignore them," intoned Hermione, pulling out her wand and performing the
charm to produce hot air again, so that she could melt them an easier path through the untouched
snow etween them and the greenhouses.
Decemer arrived, ringing with it more snow and a positive avalanche of homework for the
fifth-years. Ron and Hermione’s prefect duties also ecame more and more onerous as Christmas
approached. They were called upon to supervise the decoration of the castle ("You try putting up
tinsel when Peeves has got the other end and is trying to strangle you with it," said Ron), to
watch over first- and second-years spending their reak-times inside ecause of the itter cold
("And they’re cheeky little snot-rags, you know, we definitely weren’t that rude when we were in first year," said Ron) and to patrol the corridors in shifts with Argus Filch, who suspected that the holiday spirit might show itself in an outreak of wizard duels ("He’s got dung for rains, that one," said Ron furiously). They were so usy that Hermione had even stopped knitting elf hats and was fretting that she was down to her last three.
"All those poor elves I haven’t set free yet, having to stay here over Christmas ecause there
aren’t enough hats!"
Harry, who had not had the heart to tell her that Doy was taking everything she made, ent
lower over his History of Magic essay. In any case, he did not want to think aout Christmas. For
the first time in his school career, he very much wanted to spend the holidays away from
Hogwarts. Between his Quidditch an and worry aout whether or not Hagrid was going to e
put on proation, he felt highly resentful towards the place at the moment. The only thing he
really looked forward to were the D.A. meetings, and they would have to stop over the holidays,
as nearly everyody in the D.A. would e spending the time with their families. Hermione was
going skiing with her parents, something that greatly amused Ron, who had never heard of
Muggles strapping narrow strips of wood on to their feet to slide down mountains. Ron was
going home to The Burrow. Harry endured several days of envy efore Ron said, in response to
Harry asking him how he was going to get home for Christmas: "But you’re coming too! Didn’t I say? Mum wrote and told me to invite you weeks ago!"
Hermione rolled her eyes, ut Harry’s spirits soared: the thought of Christmas at The Burrow
was truly wonderful, though slightly marred y Harry’s guilty feeling that he would not e ale
to spend the holiday with Sirius. He wondered whether he could possily persuade Mrs. Weasley
to invite his godfather for the festivities. Even though he douted whether Dumledore would
permit Sirius to leave Grimmauld Place anyway, he could not help ut think Mrs. Weasley might
not want him; they were so often at loggerheads. Sirius had not contacted Harry at all since his
last appearance in the fire, and although Harry knew that with Umridge on constant watch it
would e unwise to attempt to contact him, he did not like to think of Sirius alone in his mother’s
old house, perhaps pulling a lonely cracker with Kreacher.
Harry arrived early in the Room of Requirement for the last D.A. meeting efore the holidays andwas very glad he had, ecause when the lamps urst into light he saw that Doy had taken it
upon himself to decorate the place for Christmas. He could tell the elf had done it, ecause
noody else would have strung a hundred golden aules from the ceiling, each showing a
picture of Harry’s face and earing the legend: HAVE A VERY HARRY CHRISTMAS!
Harry had only just managed to get the last of them down efore the door creaked open and Luna
Love good entered, looking as dreamy as always.
"Hello," she said vaguely, looking around at what remained of the decorations. "These are nice,
did you put them up?"
"No," said Harry, "it was Doy the house-elf."
"Mistletoe," said Luna dreamily, pointing at a large clump of white erries placed almost over
Harry’s head. He jumped out from under it. "Good thinking," said Luna very seriously. "It’s often infested with Nargles."
Harry was saved the necessity of asking what Nargles were y the arrival of Angelina, Katie and
Alicia. All three of them were reathless and looked very cold.
"Well," said Angelina dully, pulling off her cloak and throwing it into a corner, "we’ve finally
replaced you."
"Replaced me?" said Harry lankly.
"You and Fred and George," she said impatiently. "We’ve got another Seeker!"
"Who?" said Harry quickly.
"Ginny Weasley," said Katie.
Harry gaped at her.
"Yeah, I know," said Angelina, pulling out her wand and flexing her arm, "ut she’s pretty good,
actually. Nothing on you, of course," she said, throwing him a very dirty look, "ut as we can’t
have you..."
Harry it ack the retort he was longing to utter: did she imagine for a second that he did not
regret his expulsion from the team a hundred times more than she did?
"And what aout the Beaters?" he asked, trying to keep his voice even.
"Andrew Kirke," said Alicia without enthusiasm, "and Jack Sloper. Neither of them are rilliant,
ut compared to the rest of the idiots who turned up..."
The arrival of Ron, Hermione and Neville rought this depressing discussion to an end, and
within five minutes the room was full enough to prevent Harry seeing Angelina’s urning,
reproachful looks.
"Okay," he said, calling them all to order. "I thought this evening we should just go over the things we’ve done so far, ecause it’s the last meeting efore the holidays and there’s no point starting anything new right efore a three-week reak -"
"We’re not doing anything new?" said Zacharias Smith, in a disgruntled whisper loud enough to
carry through the room. "If I’d known that, I wouldn’t have come."
"We’re all really sorry Harry didn’t tell you, then," said Fred loudly.
Several people sniggered. Harry saw Cho laughing and felt the familiar swooping sensation in
his stomach, as though he had missed a step going downstairs.
"- we can practice in pairs," said Harry. "We’ll start with the Impediment Jinx, for ten minutes,
then we can get out the cushions and try Stunning again."
They all divided up oediently; Harry partnered Neville as usual. The room was soon full of
intermittent cries of "Impedimenta!" People froze f or a minute or so, during which their partner
would stare aimlessly around the room watching other pairs at work, then would unfreeze and
take their turn at the jinx.
Neville had improved eyond all recognition. After a while, when Harry had unfrozen three
times in a row, he had Neville join Ron and Hermione again so that he could walk around the
room and watch the others. When he passed Cho she eamed at him; he resisted the temptation
to walk past her several more times.
After ten minutes on the Impediment Jinx, they laid out cushions all over the floor and started
practicing Stunning again. Space was really too confined to allow them all to work this spell at
once; half the group oserved the others for a while, then swapped over.
Harry felt himself positively swelling with pride as he watched them all. True, Neville did Stun
Padma Patil rather than Dean, at whom he had een aiming, ut it was a much closer miss than
usual, and everyody else had made enormous progress.
At the end of an hour, Harry called a halt.
"You’re getting really good," he said, eaming around at them. "When we get ack from the
holidays we can start doing some of the ig stuff - maye even Patronuses."
There was a murmur of excitement. The room egan to clear in the usual twos and threes; most
people wished Harry a "Happy Christmas" as they went. Feeling cheerful, he collected up the
cushions with Ron and Hermione and stacked them neatly away. Ron and Hermione left efore
he did; he hung ack a little, ecause Cho was still there and he was hoping to receive a "Merry
Christmas" from her.
"No, you go on," he heard her say to her friend Marietta and his heart gave a jolt that seemed to
take it into the region of his Adam’s apple.
He pretended to e straightening the cushion pile. He was quite sure they were alone now and
waited for her to speak. Instead, he heard a hearty sniff.
He turned and saw Cho standing in the middle of the room, tears pouring down her face.
"Wha--?"
He didn’t know what to do. She was simply standing there, crying silently.
"What’s up?" he said, feely.
She shook her head and wiped her eyes on her sleeve.
"I’m - sorry," she said thickly. "I suppose... it’s just... learning all this stuff... it just makes me... wonder whether... if he’d known it all... he’d still e alive."
Harry’s heart sank right ack past its usual spot and settled somewhere around his navel. He
ought to have known. She wanted to talk aout Cedric.
"He did know this stuff," Harry said heavily. "He was really good at it, or he could never have got to the middle of that maze. But if Voldemort really wants to kill you, you don’t stand a chance."
She hiccoughed at the sound of Voldemort’s name, ut stared at Harry without flinching.
"You survived when you were just a ay," she said quietly.
"Yeah, well," said Harry wearily, moving towards the door, "I dunno why nor does anyone else,
so it’s nothing to e proud of."
"Oh, don’t go!" said Cho, sounding tearful again. "I’m really sorry to get all upset like this... I
didn’t mean to..."
She hiccoughed again. She was very pretty even when her eyes were red and puffy. Harry felt
thoroughly miserale. He’d have een so pleased with just a "Merry Christmas".
"I know it must e horrile for you," she said, mop ping her eyes on her sleeve again. "Me
mentioning Cedric, when you saw him die... I suppose you just want to forget aout it?"
Harry did not say anything to this; it was quite true, ut he felt heartless saying it.
"You’re a r-really good teacher, you know," said Cho, with a watery smile. "I’ve never een ale
to Stun anything efore."
"Thanks," said Harry awkwardly.
They looked at each other for a long moment. Harry felt a urning desire to run from the room
and, at the same time, a complete inaility to move his feet.
"Mistletoe," said Cho quietly, pointing at the ceiling over his head.
"Yeah," said Harry. His mouth was very dry. "It’s proaly full of Nargles, though."
"What are Nargles?"
"No idea," said Harry. She had moved closer. His rain seemed to have een Stunned. "You’d
have to ask Loony. Luna, I mean."
Cho made a funny noise halfway etween a so and a laugh. She was even nearer to him now.
He could have counted the freckles on her nose.
"I really like you, Harry."
He could not think. A tingling sensation was spreading through him, paralysing his arms, legs
and rain.
She was much too close. He could see every tear clinging to her eyelashes...
He returned to the common room half an hour later to find Hermione and Ron in the est seats
y the fire; nearly everyody else had gone to ed. Hermione was writing a very long letter; she
had already filled half a roll of parchment, which was dangling from the edge of the tale. Ron
was lying on the hearthrug, trying to finish his Transfiguration homework.
"What kept you?" he asked, as Harry sank into the armchair next to Hermione’s.
Harry didn’t answer. He was in a state of shock. Half of him wanted to tell Ron and Hermione
what had just happened, ut the other half wanted to take the secret with him to the grave.
"Are you all right, Harry?" Hermione asked, peering at him over the tip of her quill.
Harry gave a half-hearted shrug. In truth, he didn’t know whether he was all right or not.
"What’s up?" said Ron, hoisting himself up on his elow to get a clearer view of Harry. "What’s
happened?"
Harry didn’t quite know how to set aout telling them, and still wasn’t sure whether he wanted
to. Just as he had decided not to say anything, Hermione took matters out of his hands.
"Is it Cho?" she asked in a usinesslike way. "Did she corner you after the meeting?"
Numly surprised, Harry nodded. Ron sniggered, reaking off when Hermione caught his eye.
"So - er - what did she want?" he asked in a mock casual voice.
"She -" Harry egan, rather hoarsely; he cleared his throat and tried again. "She - er -"
"Did you kiss?" asked Hermione riskly.
Ron sat up so fast he sent his ink ottle flying all over the rug. Disregarding this completely, he
stared avidly at Harry.
"Well?" he demanded.
Harry looked from Ron’s expression of mingled curiosity and hilarity to Hermione’s slight
frown, and nodded.
"HA!"
Ron made a triumphant gesture with his fist and went into a raucous peal of laughter that made
several timid-looking second-years over eside the window jump. A reluctant grin spread over
Harry’s face as he watched Ron rolling around on the hearthrug.
Hermione gave Ron a look of deep disgust and returned to her letter.
"Well?" Ron said finally, looking up at Harry. "How was it?"
Harry considered for a moment.
"Wet," he said truthfully.
Ron made a noise that might have indicated juilation or disgust, it was hard to tell.
"Because she was crying," Harry continued heavily.
"Oh," said Ron, his smile fading slightly. "Are you that ad at kissing?"
"Dunno," said Harry, who hadn’t considered this, and immediately felt rather worried. "Maye I
am."
"Of course you’re not," said Hermione asently, still scriling away at her letter.
"How do you know?" said Ron very sharply.
"Because Cho spends half her time crying these days," said Hermione vaguely. "She does it at
mealtimes, in the loos, all over the place."
"You’d think a it of kissing would cheer her up," said Ron, grinning.
"Ron," said Hermione in a dignified voice, dipping the point of her quill into her inkpot, "you are
the most insensitive wart I have ever had the misfortune to meet."
"What’s that supposed to mean?" said Ron indignantly. "What sort of person cries while
someone’s kissing them?"
"Yeah," said Harry, slightly desperately, "who does?"
Hermione looked at the pair of them with an almost pitying expression on her face.
"Don’t you understand how Cho’s feeling at the moment?" she asked.
"No," said Harry and Ron together.
Hermione sighed and laid down her quill.
"Well, oviously, she’s feeling very sad, ecause of Cedric dying. Then I expect she’s feeling
confused ecause she liked Cedric and now she likes Harry, and she can’t work out who she
likes est. Then she’ll e feeling guilty, thinking it’s an insult to Cedric’s memory to e kissing
Harry at all, and she’ll e worrying aout what everyone else might say aout her if she starts
going out with Harry. And she proaly can’t work out what her feelings towards Harry are,
anyway, ecause he was the one who was with Cedric when Cedric died, so that’s all very mixed
up and painful. Oh, and she’s afraid she’s going to e thrown off the Ravenclaw Quidditch team
ecause she’s een flying so adly."
A slightly stunned silence greeted the end of this speech, then Ron said, "One person can’t feel
all that at once, they’d explode."
"Just ecause you’ve got the emotional range of a teaspoon doesn’t mean we all have," said
Hermione nastily picking up her quill again.
"She was the one who started it," said Harry. "I wouldn’t’ve - she just sort of came at me - and
next thing she’s crying all over me - I didn’t know what to do --"
"Don’t lame you, mate," said Ron, looking alarmed at the very thought.
"You just had to e nice to her," said Hermione, looking up anxiously. "You were, weren’t you?"
"Well," said Harry, an unpleasant heat creeping up his face, "I sort of - patted her on the ack a
it."
Hermione looked as though she was restraining herself from rolling her eyes with extreme
difficulty.
"Well, I suppose it could have een worse," she said. "Are you going to see her again?"
"I’ll have to, won’t I?" said Harry. "We’ve got D.A. meetings, haven’t we?"
"You know what I mean," said Hermione impatiently.
Harry said nothing. Hermione’s words opened up a whole new vista of frightening possiilities.
He tried to imagine going somewhere with Cho -- Hogsmeade, perhaps - and eing alone with
her for hours at a time. Of course, she would have een expecting him to ask her out after what
had just happened... the thought made his stomach clench painfully.
"Oh well," said Hermione distantly, uried in her letter once more, "you’ll have plenty of
opportunities to ask her."
"What if he doesn’t want to ask her?" said Ron, who had een watching Harry with an unusually
shrewd expression on his face.
"Don’t e silly," said Hermione vaguely, "Harry’s liked her for ages, haven’t you, Harry?"
He did not answer. Yes, he had liked Cho for ages, ut whenever he had imagined a scene
involving the two of them it had always featured a Cho who was enjoying herself, as opposed to
a Cho who was soing uncontrollaly into his shoulder.
"Who’re you writing the novel to, anyway?" Ron asked Hermione, trying to read the it of
parchment now trailing on the floor. Hermione hitched it up out of sight.
"Viktor."
"Krum?"
"How many other Viktors do we know?"
Ron said nothing, ut looked disgruntled. They sat in silence for another twenty minutes, Ron
finishing his Transfiguration essay with many snorts of impatience and crossings-out, Hermione
writing steadily to the very end of the parchment, rolling it up carefully and sealing it, and Harry
staring into the fire, wishing more than anything that Sirius’s head would appear there and give
him some advice aout girls. But the fire merely crackled lower and lower, until the red-hot
emers crumled into ash and, looking around, Harry saw that they were, yet again, the last ones
in the common room.
"Well, night," said Hermione, yawning widely as she set off up the girls’ staircase.
"What does she see in Krum?" Ron demanded, as he and Harry climed the oys’ stairs.
"Well," said Harry, considering the matter, "I s’pose he’s older, isn’t he... and he’s an
international Quidditch player..."
"Yeah, ut apart from that," said Ron, sounding aggravated. "I mean, he’s a grouchy git, isn’t
he?"
"Bit grouchy, yeah," said Harry, whose thoughts were still on Cho.
They pulled off their roes and put on pajamass in silence; Dean, Seamus and Neville were
already asleep. Harry put his glasses on his edside tale and got into ed ut did not pull the
hangings closed around his four-poster; instead, he stared at the patch of starry sky visile
through the window next to Neville’s ed. If he had known, this time last night, that in twenty-four hours’ time he would have kissed Cho Chang...
"Night," grunted Ron, from somewhere to his right.
"Night," said Harry.
Maye next time... if there was a next time... she’d e a it happier. He ought to have asked her
out; she had proaly een expecting it and was now really angry with him... or was she lying in
ed, still crying aout Cedric? He did not know what to think. Hermione’s explanation had made
it all seem more complicated rather than easier to understand.
That’s what they should teach us here, he thought, turning over on to his side, how girls’ rains
work... it’d e more useful than Divination, anyway...
Neville snuffled in his sleep. An owl hooted somewhere out in the night.
Harry dreamed he was ack in the D.A. room. Cho was accusing him of luring her there under
false pretences; she said he had promised her a hundred and fifty Chocolate Frog Cards if she
showed up. Harry protested... Cho shouted, "Cedric gave me loads of Chocolate Frog Cards,
look!" And she pulled out fistfuls of Cards from in side her roes and threw them into the air.
Then she turned into Hermione, who said, "You did promise her, you know, Harry... I think
you’d etter give her something else instead... how aout your Fireolt?" And Harry was
protesting that he could not give Cho his Fireolt, ecause Umridge had it, and anyway the
whole thing was ridiculous, he’d only come to the D.A. room to put up some Christmas aules
shaped like Doy’s head...
The dream changed...
His ody felt smooth, powerful and flexile. He was gliding etween shining metal ars, across
dark, cold stone... he was flat against the floor, sliding along on his elly... it was dark, yet he
could see ojects around him shimmering in strange, virant colors... he was turning his
head... at first glance the corridor was empty... ut no... a man was sitting on the floor ahead,
his chin drooping on to his chest, his outline gleaming in the dark...
Harry put out his tongue... he tasted the man’s scent on the air... he was alive ut drowsy...
sitting in front of a door at the end of the corridor...
Harry longed to ite the man... ut he must master the impulse... he had more important work to
do...
But the man was stirring... a silver Cloak fell from his legs as he jumped to his feet; and Harry
saw his virant, lurred outline towering aove him, saw a wand withdrawn from a elt... he had
no choice... he reared high from the floor and struck once, twice, three times, plunging his fangs
deeply into the man’s flesh, feeling his ris splinter eneath his jaws, feeling the warm gush of
lood...
The man was yelling in pain... then he fell silent... he slumped ackwards against the wall...
lood was splattering on to the floor...
His forehead hurt terrily... it was aching fit to urst...
"Harry! HARRY!"
He opened his eyes. Every inch of his ody was covered in icy sweat; his ed covers were
twisted all around him like a strait-jacket; he felt as though a white-hot poker were eing applied
to his forehead.
"Harry!"
Ron was standing over him looking extremely frightened. There were more figures at the foot of
Harry’s ed. He clutched his head in his hands; the pain was linding him... he rolled right over
and vomited over the edge of the mattress.
"He’s really ill," said a scared voice. "Should we call someone?"
"Harry!Harry!"
He had to tell Ron, it was very important that he tell him... taking great gulps of air, Harry
pushed himself up in ed, willing himself not to throw up again, the pain half-linding him.
"Your dad," he panted, his chest heaving. "Your dad’s... een attacked..."
"What?" said Ron uncomprehendingly.
"Your dad! He’s een itten, it’s serious, there was lood everywhere..."
"I’m going for help," said the same scared voice, and Harry heard footsteps running out of the
dormitory.
"Harry, mate," said Ron uncertainly, "you... you were just dreaming..."
"No!" said Harry furiously; it was crucial that Ron understand. "It wasn’t a dream... not an ordinary dream... I was there, I saw it... I did it..."
He could hear Seamus and Dean muttering ut did not care. The pain in his forehead was
susiding slightly, though he was still sweating and shivering feverishly. He retched again and
Ron leapt ackwards out of the way.
"Harry, you’re not well," he said shakily. "Neville’s gone for help."
"I’m fine!" Harry choked, wiping his mouth on his p yjamas and shaking uncontrollaly.
"There’s nothing wrong with me, it’s your dad you’ve got to worry aout - we need to find out where he is - he’s leeding like mad - I was - it was a huge snake."
He tried to get out of ed ut Ron pushed him ack into it; Dean and Seamus were still
whispering somewhere neary. Whether one minute passed or ten, Harry did not know; he
simply sat there shaking, feeling the pain recede very slowly from his scar... then there were
hurried footsteps coming up the stairs and he heard Neville’s voice again.
"Over here, Professor."
Professor McGonagall came hurrying into the dormitory in her tartan dressing gown, her glasses
perched lopsidedly on the ridge of her ony nose.
"What is it, Potter? Where does it hurt?"
He had never een so pleased to see her; it was a memer of the Order of the Phoenix he needed
now, not someone fussing over him and prescriing useless potions.
"It’s Ron’s dad," he said, sitting up again. "He’s een attacked y a snake and it’s serious, I saw it happen."
"What do you mean, you saw it happen?" said Professor McGonagall, her dark eyerows
contracting.
"I don’t know... I was asleep and then I was there..."
"You mean you dreamed this?"
"No!" said Harry angrily; would none of them understand? "I was having a dream at first aout
something completely different, something stupid... and then this interrupted it. It was real, I
didn’t imagine it. Mr. Weasley was asleep on the floor and he was attacked y a gigantic snake,
there was a load of lood, he collapsed, someone’s got to find out where he is..."
Professor McGonagall was gazing at him through her lopsided spectacles as though horrified at
what she was seeing.
"I’m not lying and I’m not mad!" Harry told her, his voice rising to a shout. "I tell you, I saw it
happen!"
"I elieve you, Potter," said Professor McGonagall curtly. "Put on your dressing gown - we’re
going to see the Headmaster."
CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries
Harry was so relieved she was taking him seriously that he did not hesitate, ut jumped out of
ed at once, pulled on his dressing gown and pushed his glasses ack on to his nose.
"Weasley, you ought to come too," said Professor McGonagall.
They followed Professor McGonagall past the silent figures of Neville, Dean and Seamus, out of
the dormitory, down the spiral stairs into the common room, through the portrait hole and off
along the Fat Lady’s moonlit corridor. Harry felt as though the panic inside him might spill over
at any moment; he wanted to run, to yell for Dumledore; Mr. Weasley was leeding as they
walked along so sedately, and what if those fangs (Harry tried hard not to think ‘my fangs’) had
een poisonous? They passed Mrs Norris, who turned her lamplike eyes upon them and hissed
faintly, ut Professor McGonagall said, "Shoo!" Mrs Norris slunk away into the shadows, and in
a few minutes they had reached the stone gargoyle guarding the entrance to Dumledore’s office.
"Fizzing Whizzee," said Professor McGonagall.
The gargoyle sprang to life and leapt aside; the wall ehind it split in two to reveal a stone
staircase that was moving continually upwards like a spiral escalator. The three of them stepped
on to the moving stairs; the wall closed ehind them with a thud and they were moving upwards
in tight circles until they reached the highly polished oak door with the rass knocker shaped like
a griffin.
Though it was now well past midnight there were voices coming from inside the room, a positive
ale of them. It sounded as though Dumledore was entertaining at least a dozen people.
Professor McGonagall rapped three times with the griffin knocker and the voices ceased aruptly
as though someone had switched them all off. The door opened of its own accord and Professor
McGonagall led Harry and Ron inside.
The room was in half-darkness; the strange silver instruments standing on tales were silent and
still rather than whirring and emitting puffs of smoke as they usually did; the portraits of old
headmasters and headmistresses covering the walls were all snoozing in their frames. Behind the
door, a magnificent red and gold ird the size of a swan dozed on its perch with its head under its
wing.
"Oh, it’s you, Professor McGonagall... and... ah."
Dumledore was sitting in a high-acked chair ehind his desk; he leaned forward into the pool
of candlelight illuminating the papers laid out efore him. He was wearing a magnificently
emroidered purple and gold dressing gown over a snowy white nightshirt, ut seemed wideawake, his penetrating light lue eyes fixed intently upon Professor McGonagall.
"Professor Dumledore, Potter has had a... well, a nightmare," said Professor McGonagall. "He
says..."
"It wasn’t a nightmare," said Harry quickly.
Professor McGonagall looked round at Harry, frowning slightly.
"Very well, then, Potter, you tell the Headmaster aout it."
"I... well, I was asleep..." said Harry and, even in his terror and his desperation to make
Dumledore understand, he felt slightly irritated that the Headmaster was not looking at him, ut
examining his own interlocked fingers. "But it wasn’t an ordinary dream... it was real... I saw it
happen..." He took a deep reath, "Ron’s dad - Mr. Weasley - has een attacked y a giant
snake."
The words seemed to revererate in the air after he had said them, sounding slightly ridiculous,
even comic. There was a pause in which Dumledore leaned ack and stared meditatively at the
ceiling. Ron looked from Harry to Dumledore, white-faced and shocked.
"How did you see this?" Dumledore asked quietly, still not looking at Harry.
"Well... I don’t know," said Harry, rather angrily - what did it matter? "Inside my head, I suppose -"
"You misunderstand me," said Dumledore, still in the same calm tone. "I mean... can you
rememer -- er - where you were positioned as you watched this attack happen? Were you
perhaps standing eside the victim, or else looking down on the scene from aove?"
This was such a curious question that Harry gaped at Dumledore; it was almost as though he
knew...
"I was the snake," he said. "I saw it all from the snake’s point of view."
Noody else spoke for a moment, then Dumledore, now looking at Ron who was still wheyfaced, asked in a new and sharper voice, "Is Arthur seriously injured?"
"Yes," said Harry emphatically - why were they all so slow on the uptake, did they not realize
how much a person led when fangs that long pierced their side? And why could Dumledore
not do him the courtesy of looking at him?
But Dumledore stood up, so quickly it made Harry jump, and addressed one of the old portraits
hanging very near the ceiling. "Everard?" he said sharply. "And you too, Dilys!"
A sallow-faced wizard with a short lack angs and an elderly witch with long silver ringlets in
the frame eside him, oth of whom seemed to have een in the deepest of sleeps, opened their
eyes immediately.
"You were listening?" said Dumledore.
The wizard nodded; the witch said, "Naturally."
"The man has red hair and glasses," said Dumledore. "Everard, you will need to raise the alarm, make sure he is found y the right people -"
Both nodded and moved sideways out of their frames, ut instead of emerging in neighoring
pictures (as usually happened at Hogwarts) neither reappeared. One frame now contained
nothing ut a ackdrop of dark curtain, the other a handsome leather armchair. Harry noticed that
many of the other headmasters and mistresses on the walls, though snoring and drooling most
convincingly, kept sneaking peeks at him from under their eyelids, and he suddenly understood
who had een talking when they had knocked.
"Everard and Dilys were two of Hogwarts’s most celerated Heads," Dumledore said, now
sweeping around Harry, Ron and Professor McGonagall to approach the magnificent sleeping
ird on his perch eside the door. "Their renown is such that oth have portraits hanging in other
important wizarding institutions. As they are free to move etween their own portraits, they can
tell us what may e happening elsewhere..."
"But Mr. Weasley could e anywhere!" said Harry.
"Please sit down, all three of you," said Dumledore, as though Harry had not spoken, "Everard
and Dilys may not e ack for several minutes. Professor McGonagall, if you could draw up
extra chairs."
Professor McGonagall pulled her wand from the pocket of her dressing gown and waved it; three
chairs appeared out of thin air, straight-acked and wooden, quite unlike the comfortale chintz
armchairs that Dumledore had conjured up at Harry’s hearing. Harry sat down, watching
Dumledore over his shoulder. Dumledore was now stroking Fawkes’s plumed golden head
with one finger. The phoenix awoke immediately. He stretched his eautiful head high and
oserved Dumledore through right, dark eyes.
"We will need," Dumledore said very quietly to the ird, "a warning."
There was a flash of fire and the phoenix had gone.
Dumledore now swooped down upon one of the fragile silver instruments whose function Harry
had never known, carried it over to his desk, sat down facing them again and tapped it gently
with the tip of his wand.
The instrument tinkled into life at once with rhythmic clinking noises. Tiny puffs of pale green
smoke issued from the minuscule silver tue at the top. Dumledore watched the smoke closely,
his row furrowed. After a few seconds, the tiny puffs ecame a steady stream of smoke that
thickened and coiled in the air... a serpent’s head grew out of the end of it, opening its mouth
wide. Harry wondered whether the instrument was confirming his story: he looked eagerly at
Dumledore for a sign that he was right, ut Dumledore did not look up.
"Naturally, naturally," murmured Dumledore apparently to himself, still oserving the stream of smoke without the slightest sign of surprise. "But in essence divided?"
Harry could make neither head nor tail of this question. The smoke serpent, however, split itself
instantly into two snakes, oth coiling and undulating in the dark air. With a look of grim
satisfaction, Dumledore gave the instrument another gentle tap with his wand: the clinking
noise slowed and died and the smoke serpents grew faint, ecame a formless haze and vanished.
Dumledore replaced the instrument on its spindly little tale. Harry saw many of the old
headmasters in the portraits follow him with their eyes, then, realizing that Harry was watching
them, hastily pretend to e sleeping again. Harry wanted to ask what the strange silver
instrument was for, ut efore he could do so, there was a shout from the top of the wall to their
right; the wizard called Everard had reappeared in his portrait, panting slightly.
"Dumledore!"
"What news?" said Dumledore at once.
"I yelled until someone came running," said the wizard, who was mopping his row on the
curtain ehind him, "said I’d heard something moving downstairs - they weren’t sure whether to
elieve me ut went down to check - you know there are no portraits down there to watch from.
Anyway, they carried him up a few minutes later. He doesn’t look good, he’s covered in lood, I
ran along to Elfrida Cragg’s portrait to get a good view as they left -"
"Good," said Dumledore as Ron made a convulsive movement. "I take it Dilys will have seen
him arrive, then -"
And moments later, the silver-ringleted witch had reappeared in her picture, too; she sank,
coughing, into her armchair and said, "Yes, they’ve taken him to St. Mungo’s, Dumledore...
they carried him past my portrait... he looks ad..."
"Thank you," said Dumledore. He looked round at Professor McGonagall.
"Minerva, I need you to go and wake the other Weasley children."
"Of course..."
Professor McGonagall got up and moved swiftly to the door. Harry cast a sideways glance at
Ron, who was looking terrified.
"And Dumledore - what aout Molly?" said Professor McGonagall, pausing at the door.
"That will e a jo for Fawkes when he has finished keeping a lookout for anyody approaching,"
said Dumledore. "But she may already know... that excellent clock of hers..."
Harry knew Dumledore was referring to the clock that told, not the time, ut the whereaouts
and conditions of the various Weasley family memers, and with a pang he thought that Mr.
Weasley’s hand must, even now, e pointing atmortal peril. But it was very late. Mrs. Weasley
was proaly asleep, not watching the clock. Harry felt cold as he rememered Mrs. Weasley’s
Boggart turning into Mr. Weasley’s lifeless ody, his glasses askew, lood running down his
face... ut Mr. Weasley wasn’t going to die... he couldn’t...
Dumledore was now rummaging in a cupoard ehind Harry and Ron. He emerged from it
carrying a lackened old kettle, which he placed carefully on his desk. He raised his wand and
murmured, "Portus!" For a moment the kettle tremled, glowing with an odd lue light; then it
quivered to rest, as solidly lack as ever.
Dumledore marched over to another portrait, this time of a clever-looking wizard with a pointed
eard, who had een painted wearing the Slytherin colors of green and silver and was
apparently sleeping so deeply that he could not hear Dumledore’s voice when he attempted to
rouse him.
"Phineas. Phineas."
The sujects of the portraits lining the room were no longer pretending to e asleep; they were
shifting around in their frames, the etter to watch what was happening. When the clever-looking
wizard continued to feign sleep, some of them shouted his name, too.
"Phineas! Phineas! PHINEAS!"
He could not pretend any longer; he gave a theatrical jerk and opened his eyes wide.
"Did someone call?"
"I need you to visit your other portrait again, Phineas," said Dumledore. "I’ve got another
message."
"Visit my other portrait?" said Phineas in a reedy voice, giving a long, fake yawn (his eyes
traveling around the room and focusing on Harry). "Oh, no, Dumledore, I am too tired tonight."
Something aout Phineas’s voice was familiar to Harry, where had he heard it efore? But efore
he could think, the portraits on the surrounding walls roke into a storm of protest.
"Insuordination, sir!" roared a corpulent, red-nosed wizard, randishing his fists. "Dereliction of duty!"
"We are honor-ound to give service to the present Headmaster of Hogwarts!" cried a fraillooking old wizard whom Harry recognized as Dumledore’s predecessor, Armando Dippet.
"Shame on you, Phineas!"
"Shall I persuade him, Dumledore?" called a gimlet-eyed witch, raising an unusually thick wand that looked not unlike a irch rod.
"Oh, very well," said the wizard called Phineas, eyeing the wand with mild apprehension,
"though he may well have destroyed my picture y now, he’s done away with most of the family
-"
"Sirius knows not to destroy your portrait," said Dumledore, and Harry realized immediately
where he had heard Phineas’s voice efore: issuing from the apparently empty frame in his
edroom in Grimmauld Place. "You are to give him the message that Arthur Weasley has een
gravely injured and that his wife, children and Harry Potter will e arriving at his house shortly.
Do you understand?"
"Arthur Weasley, injured, wife and children and Harry Potter coming to stay," repeated Phineas
in a ored voice. "Yes, yes... very well."
He sloped away into the frame of the portrait and disappeared from view at the very moment the
study door opened again. Fred, George and Ginny were ushered inside y Professor McGonagall,
all three of them looking dishevelled and shocked, still in their night things.
"Harry - what’s going on?" asked Ginny, who looked frightened. "Professor McGonagall says
you saw Dad get hurt -"
"Your father has een injured in the course of his work for the Order of the Phoenix," said
Dumledore, efore Harry could speak. "He has een taken to St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical
Maladies and Injuries. I am sending you ack to Sirius’s house, which is much more convenient
for the hospital than The Burrow. You will meet your mother there."
"How’re we going?" asked Fred, looking shaken. "Floo powder?"
"No," said Dumledore, "Floo powder is not safe at the moment, the Network is eing watched.
You will e taking a Portkey." He indicated the old kettle lying innocently on his desk. "We are
just waiting for Phineas Nigellus to report ack... I want to e sure that the coast is clear efore
sending you -"
There was a flash of flame in the very middle of the office, leaving ehind a single golden
feather that floated gently to the floor.
"It is Fawkes’s warning," said Dumledore, catching the feather as it fell. "Professor Umridge
must know you’re out of your eds... Minerva, go and head her off - tell her any story -"
Professor McGonagall was gone in a swish of tartan.
"He says he’ll e delighted," said a ored voice ehind Dumledore; the wizard called Phineas
had reappeared in front of his Slytherin anner. "My great-great-grandson has always had an odd
taste in house-guests."
"Come here, then," Dumledore said to Harry and the Weasleys. "And quickly, efore anyone
else joins us."
Harry and the others gathered around Dumledore’s desk.
"You have all used a Portkey efore?" asked Dumledore, and they nodded, each reaching out to
touch some part of the lackened kettle. "Good. On the count of three, then... one... two..."
It happened in a fraction of a second: in the infinitesimal pause efore Dumledore said "three",
Harry looked up at him - they were very close together - and Dumledore’s clear lue gaze
moved from the Portkey to Harry’s face.
At once, Harry’s scar urned white-hot, as though the old wound had urst open again - and
unidden, unwanted, ut terrifyingly strong, there rose within Harry a hatred so powerful he felt,
for that instant, he would like nothing etter than to strike - to ite - to sink his fangs into the
man efore him --
"... three."
Harry felt a powerful jerk ehind his navel, the ground vanished from eneath his feet, his hand
was glued to the kettle; he was anging into the others as they all sped forwards in a swirl of
colors and a rush of wind, the kettle pulling them onwards... until his feet hit the ground so
hard his knees uckled, the kettle clattered to the ground, and somewhere close at hand a voice
said:
"Back again, the lood-traitor rats. Is it true their father’s dying?"
"OUT!" roared a second voice.
Harry scramled to his feet and looked around; they had arrived in the gloomy asement kitchen
of numer twelve, Grimmauld Place. The only sources of light were the fire and one guttering
candle, which illuminated the remains of a solitary supper. Kreacher was disappearing through
the door to the hall, looking ack at them malevolently as he hitched up his loincloth; Sirius was
hurrying towards them all, looking anxious. He was unshaven and still in his day clothes; there
was also a slightly Mundungus-like whiff of stale drink aout him.
"What’s going on?" he said, stretching out a hand to help Ginny up. "Phineas Nigellus said
Arthur’s een adly injured --"
"Ask Harry," said Fred.
"Yeah, I want to hear this for myself," said George.
The twins and Ginny were staring at him. Kreacher’s footsteps had stopped on the stairs outside.
"It was -" Harry egan; this was even worse than telling McGonagall and Dumledore. "I had a - a kind of - vision."
And he told them all that he had seen, though he altered the story so that it sounded as though he
had watched from the sidelines as the snake attacked, rather than from ehind the snake’s own
eyes. Ron, who was still very white, gave him a fleeting look, ut did not speak. When Harry had
finished, Fred, George and Ginny continued to stare at him for a moment. Harry did not know
whether he was imagining it or not, ut he fancied there was something accusatory in their looks.
Well, if they were going to lame him just for seeing the attack, he was glad he had not told them
that he had een inside the snake at the time.
"Is Mum here?" said Fred, turning to Sirius.
"She proaly doesn’t even know what’s happened yet," said Sirius. "The important thing was to
get you away efore Umridge could interfere. I expect Dumledores letting Molly know now."
"We’ve got to go to St. Mungo’s," said Ginny urgently. She looked around at her rothers; they
were of course still in their pajamass. "Sirius, can you lend us cloaks or anything?"
"Hang on, you can’t go tearing off to St. Mungo’s!" said Sirius.
"Course we can go to St. Mungo’s if we want," said Fred, with a mulish expression. "He’s our
dad!"
"And how are you going to explain how you knew Arthur was attacked efore the hospital even
let his wife know?"
"What does that matter?" said George hotly.
"It matters ecause we don’t want to draw attention to the fact that Harry is having visions of
things that are happening hundreds of miles away!" said Sirius angrily. "Have you any idea what
the Ministry would make of that information?"
Fred and George looked as though they could not care less what the Ministry made of anything.
Ron was still ashen-faced and silent.
Ginny said, "Someody else could have told us... we could have heard it somewhere other than
Harry."
"Like who?" said Sirius impatiently. "Listen, your dad’s een hurt while on duty for the Order
and the circumstances are fishy enough without his children knowing aout it seconds after it
happened, you could seriously damage the Order’s -"
"We don’t care aout the dum Order!" shouted Fred.
"It’s our dad dying we’re talking aout!" yelled George.
"Your father knew what he was getting into and he won’t thank you for messing things up for the
Order!" said Sirius, equally angry. "This is how it is - this is why you’re not in the Order - you
don’t understand - there are things worth dying for!"
"Easy for you to say, stuck here!" ellowed Fred. "I don’t see you risking your neck!"
The little color remaining in Sirius’s face drained from it. He looked for a moment as though he
would quite like to hit Fred, ut when he spoke, it was in a voice of determined calm.
"I know it’s hard, ut we’ve all got to act as though we don’t know anything yet. We’ve got to
stay put, at least until we hear from your mother, all right?"
Fred and George still looked mutinous. Ginny, however, took a few steps over to the nearest
chair and sank into it. Harry looked at Ron, who made a funny movement somewhere etween a
nod and a shrug, and they sat down too. The twins glared at Sirius for another minute, then took
seats either side of Ginny.
"That’s right," said Sirius encouragingly, "come on, let’s all... let’s all have a drink while we’re
waiting. Accio Buttereer!"
He raised his wand as he spoke and half a dozen ottles came flying towards them out of the
pantry, skidded along the tale, scattering the deris of Sinus’s meal, and stopped neatly in front
of the six of them. They all drank, and for a while the only sounds were those of the crackling of
the kitchen fire and the soft thud of their ottles on the tale.
Harry was only drinking to have something to do with his hands. His stomach was full of
horrile hot, uling guilt. They would not e here if it were not for him; they would all still e
asleep in ed. And it was no good telling himself that y raising the alarm he had ensured that
Mr. Weasley was found, ecause there was also the in escapale usiness of it eing he who had
attacked Mr. Weasley in the first place.
Don’t e stupid, you haven’t got fangs, he told himself, trying to keep calm, though the hand on
his Buttereer ottle was shaking, you were lying in ed, you weren’t attacking anyone...
But then, what just happened in Dumledore’s office? he asked himself. I felt like I wanted to
attack Dumledore, too...
He put the ottle down a little harder than he meant to, and it slopped over on to the tale. No
one took any notice. Then a urst of fire in midair illuminated the dirty plates in front of them
and, as they gave cries of shock, a scroll of parchment fell with a thud on to the tale,
accompanied y a single golden phoenix tail feather.
"Fawkes!" said Sirius at once, snatching up the parchment. "That’s not Dumledore’s writing - it
must e a message from your mother - here -"
He thrust the letter into George’s hand, who ripped it open and read aloud: "Dad is still alive. I
am setting out for St. Mungo’s now. Stay where you are. I will send news as soon as I can. Mum."
George looked around the tale.
"Still alive..." he said slowly. "But that makes it sound..."
He did not need to finish the sentence. It sounded to Harry, too, as though Mr. Weasley was
hovering somewhere etween life and death. Still exceptionally pale, Ron stared at the ack of
his mothers letter as though it might speak words of comfort to him. Fred pulled the parchment
out of George’s hands and read it for himself, then looked up at Harry, who felt his hand shaking
on his Buttereer ottle again and clenched it more tightly to stop the tremling.
If Harry had ever sat through a longer night than this one, he could not rememer it. Sirius
suggested once, without any real conviction, that they all go to ed, ut the Weasleys’ looks of
disgust were answer enough. They mostly sat in silence around the tale, watching the candle
wick sinking lower and lower into liquid wax, occasionally raising a ottle to their lips, speaking
only to check the time, to wonder aloud what was happening, and to reassure each other that if
there was ad news, they would know straightaway, for Mrs. Weasley must long since have
arrived at St. Mungo’s.
Fred fell into a doze, his head lolling sideways on to his shoulder. Ginny was curled like a cat on
her chair, ut her eyes were open; Harry could see them reflecting the firelight. Ron was sitting
with his head in his hands, whether awake or asleep it was impossile to tell. Harry and Sirius
looked at each other every so often, intruders upon the family grief, waiting... waiting...
At ten past five in the morning y Ron’s watch, the kitchen door swung open and Mrs. Weasley
entered the kitchen. She was extremely pale, ut when they all turned to look at her, Fred, Ron
and Harry half rising from their chairs, she gave a wan smile.
"He’s going to e all right," she said, her voice weak with tiredness. "He’s sleeping. We can all
go and see him later. Bill’s sitting with him now; he’s going to take the morning off work."
Fred fell ack into his chair with his hands over his face. George and Ginny got up, walked
swiftly over to their mother and hugged her. Ron gave a very shaky laugh and downed the rest of
his Buttereer in one.
"Breakfast!" said Sirius loudly and joyfully, jumping to his feet. "Where’s that accursed house-elf? Kreacher! KREACHER!"
But Kreacher did not answer the summons.
"Oh, forget it, then," muttered Sirius, counting the people in front of him. "So, it’s reakfast for -
let’s see - seven... acon and eggs, I think, and some tea, and toast -"
Harry hurried over to the stove to help. He did not want to intrude on the Weasleys’ happiness
and he dreaded the moment when Mrs. Weasley would ask him to recount his vision. However,
he had arely taken plates from the dresser when Mrs. Weasley lifted them out of his hands and
pulled him into a hug.
"I don’t know what would have happened if it hadn’t een for you, Harry," she said in a muffled
voice. "They might not have found Arthur for hours, and then it would have een too late, ut
thanks to you he’s alive and Dumledore’s een ale to think up a good cover story for Arthur
eing where he was, you’ve no idea what troule he would have een in otherwise, look at poor
Sturgis..."
Harry could hardly ear her gratitude, ut fortunately she soon released him to turn to Sirius and
thank him for looking after her children through the night. Sirius said he was very pleased to
have een ale to help, and hoped they would all stay with him as long as Mr. Weasley was in
hospital.
"Oh, Sirius, I’m so grateful... they think he’ll e there a little while and it would e wonderful to
e nearer... of course, that might mean we’re here for Christmas."
"The more the merrier!" said Sirius with such ovious sincerity that Mrs. Weasley eamed at him, threw on an apron and egan to help with reakfast.
"Sirius," Harry muttered, unale to stand it a moment longer. "Can I have a quick word? Er -
now?"
He walked into the dark pantry and Sirius followed. Without preamle, Harry told his godfather
every detail of the vision he had had, including the fact that he himself had een the snake who
had attacked Mr. Weasley.
When he paused for reath, Sirius said, "Did you tell Dumledore this?"
"Yes," said Harry impatiently, "ut he didn’t tell me what it meant. Well, he doesn’t tell me
anything any more."
"I’m sure he would have told you if it was anything to worry aout," said Sirius steadily.
"But that’s not all," said Harry, in a voice only a little aove a whisper. "Sirius, I... I think I’m
going mad. Back in Dumledore’s office, just efore we took the Portkey... for a couple of
seconds there I thought I was a snake, I felt like one - my scar really hurt when I was looking at
Dumledore - Sirius, I wanted to attack him!"
He could only see a sliver of Siriuss face; the rest was in darkness.
"It must have een the aftermath of the vision, that’s all," said Sirius. "You were still thinking of
the dream or whatever it was and -"
"It wasn’t that," said Harry, shaking his head, "it was like something rose up inside me, like
there’s a snake inside me."
"You need to sleep," said Sirius firmly. "You’re going to have reakfast, then go upstairs to ed,
and after lunch you can go and see Arthur with the others. You’re in shock, Harry; you’re
laming yourself for something you only witnessed, and it’s lucky you did witness it or Arthur
might have died. Just stop worrying."
He clapped Harry on the shoulder and left the pantry, leaving Harry standing alone in the dark.
Everyone ut Harry spent the rest of the morning sleeping. He went up to the edroom he and
Ron had shared over the last few weeks of summer, ut while Ron crawled into ed and was
asleep within minutes, Harry sat fully clothed, hunched against the cold metal ars of the
edstead, keeping himself delierately uncomfortale, determined not to fall into a doze, terrified
that he might ecome the serpent again in his sleep and wake to find that he had attacked Ron, or
else slithered through the house after one of the others...
When Ron woke up, Harry pretended to have enjoyed a refreshing nap too. Their trunks arrived
from Hogwarts while they were eating lunch, so they could dress as Muggles for the trip to St
Mungo’s. Everyody except Harry was riotously happy and talkative as they changed out of their
roes into jeans and sweatshirts. When Tonks and Mad-Eye turned up to escort them across
London, they greeted them gleefully, laughing at the owler hat Mad-Eye was wearing at an
angle to conceal his magical eye and assuring him, truthfully, that Tonks, whose hair was short
and right pink again, would attract far less attention on the Underground.
Tonks was very interested in Harry’s vision of the attack on Mr. Weasley, something Harry was
not remotely interested in discussing.
"There isn’t any Seer lood in your family, is there?" she enquired curiously, as they sat side y
side on a train rattling towards the heart of the city.
"No," said Harry, thinking of Professor Trelawney and feeling insulted.
"No," said Tonks musingly, "no, I suppose it’s not really prophecy you’re doing, is it? I mean,
you’re not seeing the future, you’re seeing the present... it’s odd, isn’t it? Useful, though..."
Harry didn’t answer; fortunately, they got out at the next stop, a station in the very heart of
London, and in the ustle of leaving the train he was ale to allow Fred and George to get
etween himself and Tonks, who was leading the way. They all followed her up the escalator,
Moody clunking along at the ack of the group, his owler tilted low and one gnarled hand stuck
in etween the uttons of his coat, clutching his wand. Harry thought he sensed the concealed
eye staring hard at him. Trying to avoid any more questions aout his dream, he asked Mad-Eye
where St. Mungo’s was hidden.
"Not far from here," grunted Moody as they stepped out into the wintry air on a road store-lined
street packed with Christmas shoppers. He pushed Harry a little ahead of him and stumped along
just ehind; Harry knew the eye was rolling in all directions under the tilted hat. "Wasn’t easy to
find a good location for a hospital. Nowhere in Diagon Alley was ig enough and we couldn’t
have it underground like the Ministry - wouldn’t e healthy. In the end they managed to get hold
of a uilding up here. Theory was, sick wizards could come and go and just lend in with the
crowd."
He seized Harry’s shoulder to prevent them eing separated y a gaggle of shoppers plainly
intent on nothing ut making it into a neary shop full of electrical gadgets.
"Here we go," said Moody a moment later.
They had arrived outside a large, old-fashioned, red-rick department store called Purge &
Dowse Ltd. The place had a shay, miserale air; the window displays consisted of a few
chipped dummies with their wigs askew, standing at random and modelling fashions at least ten
years out of date. Large signs on all the dusty doors read: "Closed for Refurishment". Harry
distinctly heard a large woman laden with plastic shopping ags say to her friend as they passed,
"It’snever open, that place..."
"Right," said Tonks, eckoning them towards a window displaying nothing ut a particularly
ugly female dummy. Its false eyelashes were hanging off and it was modelling a green nylon
pinafore dress. "Everyody ready?"
They nodded, clustering around her. Moody gave Harry another shove etween the shoulder
lades to urge him forward and Tonks leaned close to the glass, looking up at the very ugly
dummy, her reath steaming up the glass. "Wotcher... We’re here to see Arthur
Weasley."
Harry thought how asurd it was for Tonks to expect the dummy to hear her talking so quietly
through a sheet of glass, with uses rumling along ehind her and all the racket of a street full
of shoppers. Then he reminded himself that dummies couldn’t hear anyway. Next second, his
mouth opened in shock as the dummy gave a tiny nod and eckoned with its jointed finger, and
Tonks had seized Ginny and Mrs. Weasley y the elows, stepped right through the glass and
vanished.
Fred, George and Ron stepped after them. Harry glanced around at the jostling crowd; not one of
them seemed to have a glance to spare for window displays as ugly as those of Purge & Dowse
Ltd; nor did any of them seem to have noticed that six people had just melted into thin air in
front of them.
"C’mon," growled Moody, giving Harry yet another poke in the ack, and together they stepped
forward through what felt like a sheet of cool water, emerging quite warm and dry on the other
side.
There was no sign of the ugly dummy or the space where she had stood. They were in what
seemed to e a crowded reception area where rows of witches and wizards sat upon rickety
wooden chairs, some looking perfectly normal and perusing out-of-date copies of WitchWeekly,
others sporting gruesome disfigurements such as elephant trunks or extra hands sticking out of
their chests. The room was scarcely less quiet than the street outside, for many of the patients
were making very peculiar noises: a sweaty-faced witch in the center of the front row, who was
fanning herself vigorously with a copy of the Daily Prophet, kept letting off a high-pitched
whistle as steam came pouring out of her mouth; a gruy-looking warlock in the corner clanged
like a ell every time he moved and, with each clang, his head virated horrily so that he had to
seize himself y the ears to hold it steady.
Witches and wizards in lime-green roes were walking up and down the rows, asking questions
and making notes on clipoards like Umridge’s. Harry noticed the emlem emroidered on
their chests: a wand and one, crossed.
"Are they doctors?" he asked Ron quietly.
"Doctors?" said Ron, looking startled. "Those Muggle nutters that cut people up? Nah, they’re
Healers."
"Over here!" called Mrs. Weasley aove the renewed c langing of the warlock in the corner, and
they followed her to the queue in front of a plump londe witch seated at a desk marked Enquiries. The wall ehind her was covered in notices and posters saying things like: A
CLEAN CAULDRON KEEPS POTIONS FROM BECOMING POISONS and ANTIDOTES
ARE ANTI-DON’TS UNLESS APPROVED BY A QUALIFIED HEALER. There was also a
large portrait of a witch with long silver ringlets which was laelled:
Dilys Derwent
St. Mungo’s Healer 1722-
Headmistress of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry 1741-
Dilys was eyeing the Weasley party closely as though counting them; when Harry caught her eye
she gave a tiny wink, walked sideways out of her portrait and vanished.
Meanwhile, at the front of the queue, a young wizard was performing an odd on-the-spot jig and
trying, in etween yelps of pain, to explain his predicament to the witch ehind the desk.
"It’s these - ouch - shoes my rother gave me - ow- they’re eating my - OUCH - feet - look at
them, there must e some kind of - AARGH - jinx on them and I can’t - AAAAARGH - get
them off." He hopped from one foot to the other as though dancing on hot coals.
"The shoes don’t prevent you reading, do they?" said the londe witch, irritaly pointing at a
large sign to the left of her desk. "You want Spell Damage, fourth floor. Just like it says on the
floor guide. Next!"
As the wizard holed and pranced sideways out of the way, the Weasley party moved forward a
few steps and Harry read the floor guide:
ARTEFACT ACCIDENTS... Ground floor
Cauldron explosion, wand ackfiring, room crashes, etc.
CREATURE-INDUCED INJURIES... First floor
Bites, stings, urns, emedded spines, etc.
MAGICAL BUGS... Second floor
Contagious maladies, e.g. dragon pox, vanishing sickness, scrojungulus, etc.
POTION AND PLANT POISONING... Third floor
Rashes,regurgitation (uncontrollale), etc.
SPELL DAMAGE... Fourth floor
Unliftale jinxes, hexes, and incorrectly applied charms, etc.
VISITORS’ TEAROOM AND HOSPITAL SHOP... Fifth floor
IF YOU ARE UNSURE WHERE TO GO, INCAPABLE OF NORMAL SPEECH OR
UNABLE TO REMEMBER WHY YOU ARE HERE, OUR WELCOME WITCH WILL BE
PLEASED TO HELP.
A very old, stooped wizard with a hearing trumpet had shuffled to the front of the queue now.
"I’m here to see Broderick Bode!" he wheezed.
"Ward forty-nine, ut I’m afraid you’re wasting your time," said the witch dismissively. "He’s
completely addled, you know - still thinks he’s a teapot. Next!"
A harassed-looking wizard was holding his small daughter tightly y the ankle while she flapped
around his head using the immensely large, feathery wings that had sprouted right out through
the ack of her romper suit.
"Fourth floor," said the witch, in a ored voice, without asking, and the man disappeared through
the doule doors eside the desk, holding his daughter like an oddly shaped alloon. "Next!"
Mrs. Weasley moved forward to the desk.
"Hello," she said, "my husand, Arthur Weasley, was supposed to e moved to a different ward
this morning, could you tell us -?"
"Arthur Weasley?" said the witch, running her finger down a long list in front of her. "Yes, first
floor, second door on the right, Dai Llewellyn Ward."
"Thank you," said Mrs. Weasley. "Come on, you lot."
They followed her through the doule doors and along the narrow corridor eyond, which was
lined with more portraits of famous Healers and lit y crystal ules full of candles that floated
up on the ceiling, looking like giant soapsuds. More witches and wizards in lime-green roes
walked in and out of the doors they passed; a foul-smelling yellow gas wafted into the
passageway as they passed one door, and every now and then they heard distant wailing. They
climed a flight of stairs and entered the Creature-Induced Injuries corridor, where the second
door on the right ore the words: Dangerous’ Dai Llewellyn Ward: Serious Bites. Underneath
this was a card in a rass holder on which had een handwritten:Healer-in-Charge: Hippocrates
Smethwyck. Trainee Healer: Augustus Pye.
"We’ll wait outside, Molly," Tonks said. "Arthur won’t want too many visitors at once... it ought to e just the family first."
Mad-Eye growled his approval of this idea and set himself with his ack against the corridor
wall, his magical eye spinning in all directions. Harry drew ack, too, ut Mrs. Weasley reached
out a hand and pushed him through the door, saying, "Don’t e silly, Harry, Arthur wants to
thank you."
The ward was small and rather dingy, as the only window was narrow and set high in the wall
facing the door. Most of the light came from more shining crystal ules clustered in the middle
of the ceiling. The walls were of panelled oak and there was a portrait of a rather vicious-looking
wizard on the wall, captioned: Urquhart Rackharrow, 1612--1697, Inventor of the Entrail-expelling Curse.
There were only three patients. Mr. Weasley was occupying the ed at the far end of the ward
eside the tiny window. Harry was pleased and relieved to see that he was propped up on several
pillows and reading the Daily Prophet y the solitary ray of sunlight falling on to his ed. He
looked up as they walked towards him and, seeing who it was, eamed.
"Hello!" he called, throwing the Prophet aside. "Bill just left, Molly, had to get ack to work, ut he says he’ll drop in on you later."
"How are you, Arthur?" asked Mrs. Weasley, ending down to kiss his cheek and looking
anxiously into his face. "You’re still looking a it peaky."
"I feel asolutely fine," said Mr. Weasley rightly, holding out his good arm to give Ginny a hug.
"If they could only take the andages off, I’d e f it to go home."
"Why can’t they take them off, Dad?" asked Fred.
"Well, I start leeding like mad every time they try," said Mr. Weasley cheerfully, reaching across for his wand, which lay on his edside cainet, and waving it so that six extra chairs appeared at his edside to seat them all. "It seems there was some rather unusual kind of poison in that snake’s fangs that keeps wounds open. They’re sure they’ll find an antidote, though; they say they’ve had much worse cases than mine, and in the meantime I just have to keep taking a
Blood-Replenishing Potion every hour. But that fellow over there," he said, dropping his voice
and nodding towards the ed opposite in which a man lay looking green and sickly and staring at
the ceiling. "Bitten y a werewolf, poor chap. No cure at all."
"A werewolf?" whispered Mrs. Weasley, looking alarmed. "Is he safe in a pulic ward? Shouldn’t he e in a private room?"
"It’s two weeks till full moon," Mr. Weasley reminded her quietly. "They’ve een talking to him this morning, the Healers, you know, trying to persuade him he’ll e ale to lead an almost
normal life. I said to him - didn’t mention names, of course - ut I said I knew a werewolf
personally, very nice man, who finds the condition quite easy to manage."
"What did he say?" asked George.
"Said he’d give me another ite if I didn’t shut up," said Mr. Weasley sadly. "And that woman
over there," he indicated the only other occupied ed, which was right eside the door, "won’t
tell the Healers what it her, which makes us all think it must have een something she was
handling illegally. Whatever it was took a real chunk out of her leg,very nasty smell when they
take off the dressings."
"So, you going to tell us what happened, Dad?" asked Fred, pulling his chair closer to the ed.
"Well, you already know, don’t you?" said Mr. Weasley, with a significant smile at Harry. "It’s
very simple - I’d had a very long day, dozed off, got sneaked up on and itten."
"Is it in the Prophet, you eing attacked?" asked Fred, indicating the newspaper Mr. Weasley had cast aside.
"No, of course not," said Mr. Weasley, with a slightly itter smile, "the Ministry wouldn’t want
everyone to know a dirty great serpent got --"
"Arthur!" Mrs. Weasley warned him.
"- got - er - me," Mr. Weasley said hastily, though Harry was quite sure that was not what he had
meant to say.
"So where were you when it happened, Dad?" asked George.
"That’s my usiness," said Mr. Weasley, though with a small smile. He snatched up the Daily
Prophe, shook it open again and said, "I was just reading aout Willy Widdershins’s arrest
when you arrived. You know Willy turned out to e ehind those regurgitating toilets ack in the
summer? One of his jinxes ackfired, the toilet exploded and they found him lying unconscious
in the wreckage covered from head to foot in -"
"When you say you were ‘on duty’," Fred interrupted in a low voice, "what were you doing?"
"You heard your father," whispered Mrs. Weasley, "we are not discussing this here! Go on aout
Willy Widdershins, Arthur."
"Well, don’t ask me how, ut he actually got off the toilet charge," said Mr. Weasley grimly. "I
can only suppose gold changed hands -"
"You were guarding it, weren’t you?" said George quietly. "The weapon? The thing You-Know-
Who’s after?"
"George, e quiet!" snapped Mrs. Weasley.
"Anyway," said Mr. Weasley, in a raised voice, "this time Willy’s een caught selling iting
doorknos to Muggles and I don’t think he’ll e ale to worm his way out of it ecause,
according to this article, two Muggles have lost fingers and are now in St. Mungo’s for
emergency one re-growth and memory modification. Just think of it, Muggles in St. Mungo’s! I
wonder which ward they’re in?"
And he looked eagerly around as though hoping to see a signpost.
"Didn’t you say You-Know-Who’s got a snake, Harry?" asked Fred, looking at his father for a
reaction. "A massive one? You saw it the night he returned, didn’t you?"
"That’s enough," said Mrs. Weasley crossly. "Mad-Eye and Tonks are outside, Arthur, they want
to come and see you. And you lot can wait outside," she added to her children and Harry. "You
can come and say goodye afterwards. Go on."
They trooped ack into the corridor. Mad-Eye and Tonks went in and closed the door of the ward
ehind them. Fred raised his eyerows.
"Fine," he said coolly, rummaging in his pockets, "e like that. Don’t tell us anything."
"Looking for these?" said George, holding out what looked like a tangle of flesh-colored string.
"You read my mind," said Fred, grinning. "Let’s see if St. Mungo’s puts Imperturale Charms on its ward doors, shall we?"
He and George disentangled the string and separated five Extendale Ears from each other. Fred
and George handed them around. Harry hesitated to take one.
"Go on, Harry, take it! You saved Dad’s life. If anyone’s got the right to eavesdrop on him, it’s
you."
Grinning in spite of himself, Harry took the end of the string and inserted it into his ear as the
twins had done.
"Okay, go!" Fred whispered.
The flesh-colored strings wriggled like long skinny worms and snaked under the door. At first,
Harry could hear nothing, then he jumped as he heard Tonks whispering as clearly as though she
were standing right eside him.
"... they searched the whole area ut couldn’t find the snake anywhere. It just seems to have
vanished after it attacked you, Arthur... ut You-Know-Who can’t have expected a snake to get
in, can he?"
"I reckon he sent it as a lookout," growled Moody, "cause he’s not had any luck so far, has he?
No, I reckon he’s trying to get a clearer picture of what he’s facing and if Arthur hadn’t een
there the east would’ve had a lot more time to look around. So, Potter says he saw it all
happen?"
"Yes," said Mrs. Weasley. She sounded rather uneasy. "You know, Dumledore seems almost to
have een waiting for Harry to see something like this."
"Yeah, well," said Moody, "there’s something funny aout the Potter kid, we all know that."
"Dumledore seemed worried aout Harry when I spoke to him this morning," whispered Mrs
Weasley.
"Course he’s worried," growled Moody. "The oy’s seeing things from inside You-Know-Who’s
snake. Oviously, Potter doesn’t realize what that means, ut if You-Know-Who’s possessing
him --"
Harry pulled the Extendale Ear out of his own, his heart hammering very fast and heat rushing
up his face. He looked around at the others. They were all staring at him, the strings still trailing
from their ears, looking suddenly fearful.
CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
Christmas on the Closed Ward
Was this why Dumledore would no longer meet Harry’s eyes? Did he expect to see Voldemort
staring out of them, afraid, perhaps, that their vivid green might turn suddenly to scarlet, with
catlike slits for pupils? Harry rememered how the snakelike face of Voldemort had once forced
itself out of the ack of Professor Quirrell’s head and ran his hand over the ack of his own,
wondering what it would feel like if Voldemort urst out of his skull.
He felt dirty, contaminated, as though he were carrying some deadly germ, unworthy to sit on the
Underground train ack from the hospital with innocent, clean people whose minds and odies
were free of the taint of Voldemort... he had not merely seen the snake, he hadeen the snake, he
knew it now...
A truly terrile thought then occurred to him, a memory oing to the surface of his mind, one
that made his insides writhe and squirm like serpents.
What’s he after, apart from followers?
Stuff he can only get y stealth... like a weapon. Something he didn’t have last time.
I’m the weapon, Harry thought, and it was as though poison were pumping through his veins,
chilling him, ringing him out in a sweat as he swayed with the train through the dark tunnel. I’m
the one Voldemorts trying to use, that’s why they’ve got guards around me everywhere I go, it’s
not for my protection, it’s for other people’s, only it’s not working, they can’t have someone on
me all the time at Hogwarts... I did attack Mr. Weasley last night, it was me. Voldemort made me do it and he could e inside me, listening to my thoughts right now -
"Are you all right, Harry, dear?" whispered Mrs. Wea sley leaning across Ginny to speak to him as the train rattled along through its dark tunnel. "You don’t look very well. Are you feeling sick?"
They were all watching him. He shook his head violently and stared up at an advertisement for
home insurance.
"Harry, dear, are you sure you’re all right?" said Mrs. Weasley in a worried voice, as they walked around the unkempt patch of grass in the middle of Grimmauld Place. "You look ever so pale... are you sure you slept this morning? You go upstairs to ed right now and you can have a couple of hours of sleep efore dinner, all right?"
He nodded; here was a ready-made excuse not to talk to any of the others, which was precisely
what he wanted, so when she opened the front door he hurried straight past the troll’s-leg
umrella stand, up the stairs and into his and Ron’s edroom.
Here, he egan to pace up and down, past the two eds and Phineas Nigellus’s empty picture
frame, his rain teeming and seething with questions and ever more dreadful ideas.
How had he ecome a snake? Perhaps he was an Animagus... no, he couldn’t e, he would
know... perhapsVoldemort was an Animagus... yes, thought Harry, that would fit, he would turn
into a snake of course... and when he’s possessing me, then we oth transform... that still
doesn’t explain how I got to London and ack to my ed in the space of aout five minutes... ut
then Voldemort’s aout the most powerful wizard in the world, apart from Dumledore, it’s
proaly no prolem at all to him to transport people like that.
And then, with a terrile sta of panic, he thought,ut this is insane - if Voldemort’s possessing
me, I’m giving him a clear view into the Headquarter s of the Order of the Phoenix right now!
He’ll know who’s in the Order and where Sirius is... and I’ve heard loads of stuff I shouldn’t
have, everything Sirius told me the first night I was here...
There was only one thing for it: he would have to leave Grimmauld Place straightaway. He
would spend Christmas at Hogwarts without the others, which would keep them safe over the
holidays at least... ut no, that wouldn’t do, there were still plenty of people at Hogwarts to
maim and injure. What if it was Seamus, Dean or Neville next time? He stopped his pacing and
stood staring at Phineas Nigellus’s empty frame. A leaden sensation was settling in the pit of his
stomach. He had no alternative: he was going to have to return to Privet Drive, cut himself off
from other wizards entirely.
Well, if he had to do it, he thought, there was no point hanging around. Trying with all his might
not to think how the Dursleys were going to react when they found him on their doorstep six
months earlier than they had expected, he strode over to his trunk, slammed the lid shut and
locked it, then glanced around automatically for Hedwig efore rememering that she was still at
Hogwarts - well, her cage would e one less thing to carry - he seized one end of his trunk and
had dragged it halfway towards the door when a snide voice said, "Running away, are we?"
He looked around. Phineas Nigellus had appeared on the canvas of his portrait and was leaning
against the frame, watching Harry with an amused expression on his face.
"Not running away, no," said Harry shortly, dragging his trunk a few more feet across the room.
"I thought," said Phineas Nigellus, stroking his pointed eard, "that to elong in Gryffindor house you were supposed to e rave! It looks to me as though you would have een etter off in my own house. We Slytherins are rave, yes, ut not stupid. For instance, given the choice, we will always choose to save our own necks."
"It’s not my own neck I’m saving," said Harry tersely, tugging the trunk over a patch of
particularly uneven, moth-eaten carpet right in front of the door.
"Oh, I see," said Phineas Nigellus, still stroking his eard, "this is no cowardly flight - you are
eing nole."
Harry ignored him. His hand was on the doorkno when Phineas Nigellus said lazily, "I have a
message for you from Alus Dumledore."
Harry span round.
"What is it?"
"‘Stay where you are.’"
"I haven’t moved!" said Harry, his hand still upon the doorkno. "So what’s the message?"
"I have just given it to you, dolt," said Phineas Ni gellus smoothly. "Dumledore says, ‘Stay
where you are.’"
"Why?" said Harry eagerly, dropping the end of his trunk. "Why does he want me to stay? What
else did he say?"
"Nothing whatsoever," said Phineas Nigellus, raising a thin lack eyerow as though he found
Harry impertinent.
Harry’s temper rose to the surface like a snake rearing from long grass. He was exhausted, he
was confused eyond measure, he had experienced terror, relief, then terror again in the last
twelve hours, and still Dumledore did not want to talk to him!
"So that’s it, is it?" he said loudly. "‘Stay where you a re’! That’s all anyone could tell me after I got attacked y those Dementors, too! Just stay put while the grown-ups sort it out, Harry! We won’t other telling you anything, though, ecause your tiny little rain might not e ale to cope with it!"
"You know," said Phineas Nigellus, even more loudly than Harry "this is precisely why I loathed
eing a teacher! Young people are so infernally convinced that they are asolutely right aout
everything. Has it not occurred to you, my poor puffed-up popinjay, that there might e an
excellent reason why the Headmaster of Hogwarts is not confiding every tiny detail of his plans
to you? Have you never paused, while feeling hard-done-y, to note that following Dumledores
orders has never yet led you into harm? No. No, like all young people, you are quite sure that
you alone feel and think, you alone recognize danger, you alone are the only one clever enough
to realize what the Dark Lord may e planning -"
"He is planning something to do with me, then?" said Harry swiftly.
"Did I say that?" said Phineas Nigellus, idly examining his silk gloves. "Now, if you will excuse
me, I have etter things to do than listen to adolescent agonising... good-day to you."
And he strolled to the edge of his frame and out of sight.
"Fine, go then!" Harry ellowed at the empty frame. "And tell Dumledore thanks for nothing!"
The empty canvas remained silent. Fuming, Harry dragged his trunk ack to the foot of his ed,
then threw himself face down on the moth-eaten covers, his eyes shut, his ody heavy and
aching.
He felt as though he had journeyed for miles and miles... it seemed impossile that less than
twenty-four hours ago Cho Chang had een approaching him under the mistletoe... he was so
tired... he was scared to sleep... yet he did not know how long he could fight it... Dumledore
had told him to stay... that must mean he was allowed to sleep... ut he was scared... what if it
happened again?
He was sinking into shadows...
It was as though a film in his head had een waiting to start. He was walking down a deserted
corridor towards a plain lack door, past rough stone walls, torches, and an open doorway on to a
flight of stone steps leading downstairs on the left...
He reached the lack door ut could not open it... he stood gazing at it, desperate for entry...
something he wanted with all his heart lay eyond... a prize eyond his dreams... if only his scar
would stop prickling... then he would e ale to think more clearly...
"Harry," said Ron’s voice, from far, far away, "Mum says dinner’s ready, ut she’ll save you
something if you want to stay in ed."
Harry opened his eyes, ut Ron had already left the room.
He doesn’t want to e on his own with me, Harry thought. Not after what he heard Moody say.
He supposed none of them would want him there any more, now that they knew what was inside
him.
He would not go down to dinner; he would not inflict his company on them. He turned over on to
his other side and, after a while, dropped ack off to sleep. He woke much later, in the early
hours of the morning, his insides aching with hunger and Ron snoring in the next ed. Squinting
around the room, he saw the dark outline of Phineas Nigellus standing again in his portrait and it
occurred to Harry that Dumledore had proaly sent Phineas Nigellus to watch over him, in
case he attacked someody else.
The feeling of eing unclean intensified. He half-wished he had not oeyed Dumledore... if this
was how life was going to e for him in Grimmauld Place from now on, maye he would e
etter off in Privet Drive after all.
Everyody else spent the following morning putting up Christmas decorations. Harry could not
rememer Sirius ever eing in such a good mood; he was actually singing carols, apparently
delighted that he was to have company over Christmas. Harry could hear his voice echoing up
through the floor in the cold drawing room where he was sitting alone, watching the sky growing
whiter outside the windows, threatening snow, all the time feeling a savage pleasure that he was
giving the others the opportunity to keep talking aout him, as they were ound to e doing.
When he heard Mrs. Weasley calling his name softly u p the stairs around lunchtime, he retreated
further upstairs and ignored her.
Around six o’clock in the evening the doorell rang and Mrs. Black started screaming again.
Assuming that Mundungus or some other Order memer had come to call, Harry merely settled
himself more comfortaly against the wall of Buckeak’s room where he was hiding, trying to
ignore how hungry he felt as he fed dead rats to the Hippogriff. It came as a slight shock when
someody hammered hard on the door a few minutes later.
"I know you’re in there," said Hermione’s voice. "Will you please come out? I want to talk to
you."
"What are you doing here?" Harry asked her, pulling open the door as Buckeak resumed his
scratching at the straw-strewn floor for any fragments of rat he may have dropped. "I thought you were skiing with your mum and dad?"
"Well, to tell the truth, skiing’s not really my thing," said Hermione. "So, I’ve come here for
Christmas." There was snow in her hair and her face was pink with cold. "But don’t tell Ron. I
told him it’s really good ecause he kept laughing so much. Mum and Dad are a it
disappointed, ut I’ve told them that everyone who is serious aout the exams is staying at
Hogwarts to study. They want me to do well, they’ll understand. Anyway," she said riskly,
"let’s go to your edroom, Ron’s mum has lit a fire in there and she’s sent up sandwiches."
Harry followed her ack to the second floor. When he entered the edroom, he was rather
surprised to see oth Ron and Ginny waiting for them, sitting on Ron’s ed.
"I came on the Knight Bus," said Hermione airily, pulling off her jacket efore Harry had time to speak. "Dumledore told me what had happened first thing this morning, ut I had to wait for
term to end officially efore setting off. Umridge is already livid that you lot disappeared right
under her nose, even though Dumledore told her Mr. Weasley was in St. Mungo’s and he’d
given you all permission to visit. So..."
She sat down next to Ginny, and the two girls and Ron all looked up at Harry.
"How’re you feeling?" asked Hermione.
"Fine," said Harry stiffly.
"Oh, don’t lie, Harry," she said impatiently. "Ron and Ginny say you’ve een hiding from
everyone since you got ack from St. Mungo’s."
"They do, do they?" said Harry, glaring at Ron and Ginny. Ron looked down at his feet ut
Ginny seemed quite unaashed.
"Well, you have!" she said. "And you won’t look at any of us!"
"It’s you lot who won’t look at me!" said Harry ang rily.
"Maye you’re taking it in turns to look, and keep missing each other," suggested Hermione, the
corners of her mouth twitching.
"Very funny," snapped Harry, turning away.
"Oh, stop feeling all misunderstood," said Hermione sharply. "Look, the others have told me what you overheard last night on the Extendale Ears -"
"Yeah?" growled Harry, his hands deep in his pockets as he watched the snow now falling
thickly outside. "All een talking aout me, have you? Well, I’m getting used to it."
"We wanted to talk to you, Harry," said Ginny, "ut as you’ve een hiding ever since we got ack -"
"I didn’t want anyone to talk to me," said Harry, w ho was feeling more and more nettled.
"Well, that was a it stupid of you," said Ginny angrily, "seeing as you don’t know anyone ut
me who’s een possessed y You-Know-Who, and I can tell you how it feels."
Harry remained quite still as the impact of these words hit him. Then he wheeled round.
"I forgot," he said.
"Lucky you," said Ginny coolly.
"I’m sorry" Harry said, and he meant it. "So... so, do you think I’m eing possessed, then?"
"Well, can you rememer everything you’ve een doing?" Ginny asked. "Are there ig lank
periods where you don’t know what you’ve een up to?"
Harry racked his rains.
"No," he said.
"Then You-Know-Who hasn’t ever possessed you," said Ginny simply. "When he did it to me, I
couldn’t rememer what I’d een doing for hours at a time. I’d find myself somewhere and not
know how I got there."
Harry hardly dared elieve her, yet his heart was lightening almost in spite of himself.
"That dream I had aout your dad and the snake, though --"
"Harry you’ve had these dreams efore," Hermione said. "You had flashes of what Voldemort
was up to last year."
"This was different," said Harry, shaking his head. "I was inside that snake. It was like I was the
snake... what if Voldemort somehow transported me to London --?"
"One day," said Hermione, sounding thoroughly exasperated, "you’ll read Hogwarts: A History,
and perhaps it will remind you that you can’t Apparate or Disapparate inside Hogwarts. Even
Voldemort couldn’t just make you fly out of your dormitory, Harry."
"You didn’t leave your ed, mate," said Ron. "I saw you thrashing around in your sleep for at
least a minute efore we could wake you up."
Harry started pacing up and down the room again, thinking. What they were all saying was not
only comforting, it made sense... without really thinking, he took a sandwich from the plate on
the ed and crammed it hungrily into his mouth.
I’m not the weapon after all, thought Harry. His heart swelled with happiness and relief, and he
felt like joining in as they heard Sirius tramping past their door towards Buckeak’s room, singing "God Rest Ye, Merry Hippogriffs" at the top of his voice.
How could he have dreamed of returning to Privet Drive for Christmas? Sirius’s delight at
having the house full again, and especially at having Harry ack, was infectious. He was no
longer their sullen host of the summer; now he seemed determined that everyone should enjoy
themselves as much, if not more than they would have done at Hogwarts, and he worked
tirelessly in the run-up to Christmas Day, cleaning and decorating with their help, so that y the
time they all went to ed on Christmas Eve the house was arely recognisale. The tarnished
chandeliers were no longer hung with cowes ut with garlands of holly and gold and silver
streamers; magical snow glittered in heaps over the threadare carpets; a great Christmas tree,
otained y Mundungus and decorated with live fairies, locked Sirius’s family tree from view,
and even the stuffed elf-heads on the hall wall wore Father Christmas hats and eards.
Harry awoke on Christmas morning to find a stack of presents at the foot of his ed and Ron
already halfway through opening his own, rather larger, pile.
"Good haul this year," he informed Harry through a cloud of paper. "Thanks for the Broom
Compass, it’s excellent; eats Hermiones - she got me a homework planner-"
Harry sorted through his presents and found one with Hermiones handwriting on it. She had
given him, too, a ook that resemled a diary except that it said things like "Do it today or later youll pay!" every time he opend a page.
Sirius and Lupin had given Harry a set of excellent ooks entitled Practical Defensive Magic and its Use Against the Dark Arts, which had super, moving color illustrations of all the counterjinxes and hexes it descried. Harry flicked through the first volume eagerly; he could see it was going to e highly useful in his plans for the D.A.. Hagrid had sent a furry rown wallet that had fangs, which were presumaly supposed to e an anti-theft device, ut unfortunately prevented Harry putting any money in without getting his fingers ripped off. Tonks’s present was a small, working model of a Fireolt, which Harry watched fly around the room, wishing he still
had his full-size version; Ron had given him an enormous ox of Every-Flavour Beans, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley the usual hand-knitted jumper and some mince pies, and Doy a truly dreadful
painting that Harry suspected had een done y the elf himself. He had just turned it upsidedown
to see whether it looked etter that way when, with a loudcrack, Fred and George
Apparated at the foot of his ed.
"Merry Christmas," said George. "Don’t go downstairs for a it."
"Why not?" said Ron.
"Mum’s crying again," said Fred heavily. "Percy sent ack his Christmas jumper."
"Without a note," added George. "Hasn’t asked how Dad is or visited him or anything."
"We tried to comfort her," said Fred, moving around the ed to look at Harry’s portrait. "Told her Percy’s nothing more than a humungous pile of rat droppings."
"Didn’t work," said George, helping himself to a Chocolate Frog. "So Lupin took over. Best let
him cheer her up efore we go down for reakfast, I reckon."
"What’s that supposed to e, anyway?" asked Fred, squinting at Doy’s painting. "Looks like a
gion with two lack eyes."
"It’s Harry!" said George, pointing at the ack of the picture, "says so on the ack!"
"Good likeness," said Fred, grinning. Harry threw his new homework diary at him; it hit the wall
opposite and fell to the floor where it said happily: "If you’ve dotted the ‘i’s and crossed the ‘t’s then you may do whatever you please!"
They got up and dressed. They could hear the various inhaitants of the house calling "Merry
Christmas" to one another. On their way downstairs they met Hermione.
"Thanks for the ook, Harry" she said happily. "I’ve een wanting that New Theory of
Numerology for ages! And that perfume’s really unusual, Ron."
"No prolem," said Ron. "Who’s that for, anyway?" he added, nodding at the neatly wrapped
present she was carrying.
"Kreacher," said Hermione rightly.
"It had etter not e clothes!" Ron warned her. "You know what Sirius said: Kreacher knows too much, we can’t set him free!"
"It isn’t clothes," said Hermione, "although if I had my way I’d certainly give him something to
wear other than that filthy old rag. No, it’s a patchwork quilt, I thought it would righten up his
edroom."
"What edroom?" said Harry, dropping his voice to a whisper as they were passing the portrait of Sirius’s mother.
"Well, Sirius says it’s not so much a edroom, more a kind of -den," said Hermione. "Apparently he sleeps under the oiler in that cupoard off the kitchen."
Mrs. Weasley was the only person in the asement when they arrived there. She was standing at
the stove and sounded as though she had a ad head cold as she wished them "Merry Christmas,"
and they all averted their eyes.
"So, is this Kreacher’s edroom?" said Ron, strolling over to a dingy door in the corner opposite
the pantry. Harry had never seen it open.
"Yes," said Hermione, now sounding a little nervous. "Er... I think we’d etter knock."
Ron rapped on the door with his knuckles ut there was no reply.
"He must e sneaking around upstairs," he said, and without further ado pulled open the door.
"Urgh!"
Harry peered inside. Most of the cupoard was taken up with a very large and old-fashioned
oiler, ut in the foot’s space underneath the pipes Kreacher had made himself something that
looked like a nest. A jumle of assorted rags and smelly old lankets were piled on the floor and
the small dent in the middle of it showed where Kreacher curled up to sleep every night. Here
and there among the material were stale read crusts and mouldy old its of cheese. In a far
corner glinted small ojects and coins that Harry guessed Kreacher had saved, magpie-like, from
Sirius’s purge of the house, and he had also managed to retrieve the silver-framed family
photographs that Sirius had thrown away over the summer. Their glass might e shattered, ut
still the little lack-and-white people inside them peered up at him haughtily, including - he felt a
little jolt in his stomach - the dark, heavy-lidded woman whose trial he had witnessed in
Dumledore’s Pensieve: Bellatrix Lestrange. By the looks of it, hers was Kreacher’s favorite
photograph; he had placed it to the fore of all the others and had mended the glass clumsily with
Spellotape.
"I think I’ll just leave his present here," said Hermione, laying the package neatly in the middle
of the depression in the rags and lankets and closing the door quietly. "He’ll find it later, that’ll
e fine."
"Come to think of it," said Sirius, emerging from the pantry carrying a large turkey as they closed the cupoard door, "has anyone actually seen Kreacher lately?"
"I haven’t seen him since the night we came ack here," said Harry. "You were ordering him out of the kitchen."
"Yeah..." said Sirius, frowning. "You know, I think that’s the last time I saw him, too... he must
e hiding upstairs somewhere."
"He couldn’t have left, could he?" said Harry. "I mean, when you said ‘out’, maye he thought you meant get out of the house?"
"No, no, house-elves can’t leave unless they’re given clothes. They’re tied to their family’s
house," said Sirius.
"They can leave the house if they really want to," Harry contradicted him. "Doy did, he left the Malfoys’ to give me warnings two years ago. He had to punish himself afterwards, ut he still managed it."
Sirius looked slightly disconcerted for a moment, then said, "I’ll look for him later, I expect I’ll
find him upstairs crying his eyes out over my mother’s old loomers or something. Of course, he
might have crawled into the airing cupoard and died... ut I mustn’t get my hopes up."
Fred, George and Ron laughed; Hermione, however, looked reproachful.
Once they had eaten their Christmas lunch, the Weasleys, Harry and Hermione were planning to
pay Mr. Weasley another visit, escorted y Mad-Eye and Lupin. Mundungus turned up in time
for Christmas pudding and trifle, having managed to ‘orrow’ a car for the occasion, as the
Underground did not run on Christmas Day. The car, which Harry douted very much had een
taken with the knowledge or consent of its owner, had had a similar Enlarging Spell put upon it as the Weasleys old Ford Anglia; although normally proportioned outside, ten people with Mundungus driving were ale to fit into it quite comfortaly. Mrs. Weasley hesitated efore getting inside - Harry knew her disapproval of Mundungus was attling with her dislike of traveling without magic - ut, finally, the cold outside and her children’s pleading triumphed, and she settled herself into the ack seat etween Fred and Bill with good grace.
The journey to St. Mungo’s was quite quick as there was very little traffic on the roads. A small
trickle of witches and wizards was creeping furtively up the otherwise deserted street to visit the
hospital. Harry and the others got out of the car, and Mundungus drove off around the corner to
wait for them. They strolled casually towards the window where the dummy in green nylon
stood, then, one y one, stepped through the glass.
The reception area looked pleasantly festive: the crystal ors that illuminated St. Mungo’s had
een colored red and gold to ecome gigantic, glowing Christmas aules; holly hung around
every doorway; and shining white Christmas trees covered in magical snow and icicles glittered
in every corner, each one topped with a gleaming gold star. It was less crowded than the last time
they had een there, although halfway across the room Harry found himself shunted aside y a
witch with a walnut jammed up her left nostril.
"Family argument, eh?" smirked the londe witch ehind the desk. "You’re the third I’ve seen
today... Spell Damage, fourth floor."
They found Mr. Weasley propped up in ed with the remains of his turkey dinner on a tray on his
lap and a rather sheepish expression on his face.
"Everything all right, Arthur?" asked Mrs. Weasley, after they had all greeted Mr. Weasley and
handed over their presents.
"Fine, fine," said Mr. Weasley, a little too heartily. "You -- er -- haven’t seen Healer
Smethwyck, have you?"
"No," said Mrs. Weasley suspiciously, "why?"
"Nothing, nothing," said Mr. Weasley airily, starting to unwrap his pile of gifts. "Well, everyone
had a good day? What did you all get for Christmas? Oh, Harry - this is asolutely wonderful!" For he had just opened Harry’s gift of fuse-wire and screwdrivers.
Mrs. Weasley did not seem entirely satisfied with Mr. Weasley’s answer. As her husand leaned
over to shake Harry’s hand, she peered at the andaging under his nightshirt.
"Arthur," she said, with a snap in her voice like a mousetrap, "you’ve had your andages
changed. Why have you had your andages changed a day early, Arthur? They told me they
wouldn’t need doing until tomorrow."
"What?" said Mr. Weasley, looking rather frightened and pulling the ed covers higher up his
chest. "No, no - it’s nothing - it’s -I-"
He seemed to deflate under Mrs. Weasley’s piercing gaze.
"Well - now don’t get upset, Molly, ut Augustus Pye had an idea... he’s the Trainee Healer, you know, lovely young chap and very interested in... um... complementary medicine... I mean,
some of these old Muggle remedies... well, they’re called stitches, Molly, and they work very
well on - on Muggle wounds -"
Mrs. Weasley let out an ominous noise somewhere etween a shriek and a snarl. Lupin strolled
away from the ed and over to the werewolf, who had no visitors and was looking rather
wistfully at the crowd around Mr. Weasley; Bill muttered something aout getting himself a cup
of tea and Fred and George leapt up to accompany him, grinning.
"Do you mean to tell me," said Mrs. Weasley, her voice growing louder with every word and
apparently unaware that her fellow visitors were scurrying for cover, "that you have een
messing aout with Muggle remedies?"
"Not messing aout, Molly, dear," said Mr. Weasley imploringly, "it was just - just something Pye and I thought we’d try - only, most unfortunately -- well, with these particular kinds of wounds - it doesn’t seem to work as well as we’d hoped -"
"Meaning?"
"Well... well, I don’t know whether you know what - what stitches are?"
"It sounds as though you’ve een trying to sew your skin ack together," said Mrs. Weasley with
a snort of mirthless laughter, "ut even you, Arthur, wouldn’t e that stupid --"
"I fancy a cup of tea, too," said Harry, jumping to his feet.
Hermione, Ron and Ginny almost sprinted to the door with him. As it swung closed ehind them,
they heard Mrs. Weasley shriek, "WHAT DO YOU MEAN, TH AT’S THE GENERAL IDEA?"
"Typical Dad," said Ginny, shaking her head as they set off up the corridor. "Stitches... I ask
you..."
"Well, you know, they do work well on non-magical wounds," said Hermione fairly. "I suppose
something in that snake’s venom dissolves them or something. I wonder where the tearoom is?"
"Fifth floor," said Harry, rememering the sign over the welcome witch’s desk.
They walked along the corridor, through a set of doule doors and found a rickety staircase lined
with more portraits of rutal-looking Healers. As they climed it, the various Healers called out
to them, diagnosing odd complaints and suggesting horrile remedies. Ron was seriously
affronted when a medieval wizard called out that he clearly had a ad case of spattergroit.
"And what’s that supposed to e?" he asked angrily, as the Healer pursued him through six more
portraits, shoving the occupants out of the way.
"Tis a most grievous affliction of the skin, young master, that will leave you pockmarked and
more gruesome even than you are now -"
"Watch who you’re calling gruesome!" said Ron, his ears turning red.
"- the only remedy is to take the liver of a toad, ind it tight aout your throat, stand naked at the
full moon in a arrel of eels’ eyes -"
"I have not got spattergroit!"
"But the unsightly lemishes upon your visage, young master -"
"They’re freckles!" said Ron furiously. "Now get ack in your own picture and leave me alone!"
He rounded on the others, who were all keeping determinedly straight faces.
"What floor’s this?"
"I think it’s the fifth," said Hermione.
"Nah, it’s the fourth," said Harry, "one more --"
But as he stepped on to the landing he came to an arupt halt, staring at the small window set
into the doule doors that marked the start of a corridor signposted SPELL DAMAGE. A man
was peering out at them all with his nose pressed against the glass. He had wavy lond hair,
right lue eyes and a road vacant smile that revealed dazzlingly white teeth.
"Blimey!" said Ron, also staring at the man.
"Oh, my goodness," said Hermione suddenly, sounding reathless. "Professor Lockhart!"
Their ex-Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher pushed open the doors and moved towards
them, wearing a long lilac dressing gown.
"Well, hello there!" he said. "I expect you’d like my autograph, would you?"
"Hasn’t changed much, has he?" Harry muttered to Ginny, who grinned.
"Er -- how are you, Professor?" said Ron, sounding slightly guilty. It had een Ron’s
malfunctioning wand that had damaged Professor Lockhart’s memory so adly that he had
landed in St. Mungo’s in the first place, though as Lockhart had een attempting to permanently
wipe Harry and Ron’s memories at the time, Harrys sympathy was limited.
"I’m very well indeed, thank you!" said Lockhart exuerantly, pulling a rather attered peacockfeather quill from his pocket. "Now, how many autographs would you like? I can do joined-up writing now, you know!"
"Er - we don’t want any at the moment, thanks," said Ron, raising his eyerows at Harry, who
asked, "Professor, should you e wandering around the corridors? Shouldn’t you e in a ward?"
The smile faded slowly from Lockhart’s face. For a few moments he gazed intently at Harry,
then he said, "Haven’t we met?"
"Er... yeah, we have," said Harry. "You used to teach us at Hogwarts, rememer?"
"Teach?" repeated Lockhart, looking faintly unsettled. "Me? Did I?"
And then the smile reappeared upon his face so suddenly it was rather alarming.
"Taught you everything you know, I expect, did I? Well, how aout those autographs, then?
Shall we say a round dozen, you can give them to all your little friends then and noody will e
left out!"
But just then a head poked out of a door at the far end of the corridor and a voice called,
"Gilderoy, you naughty oy, where have you wandered off to?"
A motherly-looking Healer wearing a tinsel wreath in her hair came ustling up the corridor,
smiling warmly at Harry and the others.
"Oh, Gilderoy, you’ve got visitors! How lovely, and on Christmas Day, too! Do you know,
he never gets visitors, poor lam, and I can’t think why, he’s such a sweetie, aren’t you?"
"We’re doing autographs!" Gilderoy told the Healer with another glittering smile. "They want
loads of them, won’t take no for an answer! I just hope we’ve got enough photographs!"
"Listen to him," said the Healer, taking Lockhart’s arm and eaming fondly at him as though he
were a precocious two-year-old. "He was rather well known a few years ago; we very much hope
that this liking for giving autographs is a sign that his memory might e starting to come ack.
Will you step this way? He’s in a closed ward, you know, he must have slipped out while I was
ringing in the Christmas presents, the door’s usually kept locked... not that he’s dangerous!
But," she lowered her voice to a whisper, "he’s a it of a danger to himself, less him... doesn’t
know who he is, you see, wanders off and can’t rememer how to get ack... it is nice of you to
have come to see him."
"Er," said Ron, gesturing uselessly at the floor aove, "actually, we were just -- er -"
But the Healer was smiling expectantly at them, and Ron’s feele mutter of "going to have a cup
of tea" trailed away into nothingness. They looked at each other helplessly, then followed
Lockhart and his Healer along the corridor.
"Let’s not stay long," Ron said quietly.
The Healer pointed her wand at the door of the Janus Thickey Ward and muttered, "Alohomora."
The door swung open and she led the way inside, keeping a firm grasp on Gilderoys arm until
she had settled him into an armchair eside his ed.
"This is our long-term residents’ ward," she informed Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny
in a low voice. "For permanent spell damage, you know. Of course, with intensive remedial potions and charms and a it of luck, we can produce some improvement. Gilderoy does seem to e getting ack some sense of himself; and we’ve seen a real improvement in Mr. Bode, he seems to e regaining th e power of speech very well, though he isn’t speaking any language we recognize yet. Well, I must finish giving out the Christmas presents, I’ll leave you all to chat."
Harry looked around. The ward ore unmistakale signs of eing a permanent home to its
residents. They had many more personal effects around their eds than in Mr. Weasley’s ward;
the wall around Gilderoy’s headoard, for instance, was papered with pictures of himself, all
eaming toothily and waving at the new arrivals. He had autographed many of them to himself in
disjointed, childish writing. The moment he had een deposited in his chair y the Healer,
Gilderoy pulled a fresh stack of photographs towards him, seized a quill and started signing them
all feverishly.
"You can put them in envelopes," he said to Ginny, throwing the signed pictures into her lap one
y one as he finished them. "I am not forgotten, you know, no, I still receive a very great deal of
fan mail... Gladys Gudgeon writes weekly... I just wish I knew why." He paused, looking faintly puzzled, then eamed again and returned to his signing with renewed vigour. "I suspect it is simply my good looks..."
A sallow-skinned, mournful-looking wizard lay in the ed opposite staring at the ceiling; he was
mumling to himself and seemed quite unaware of anything around him. Two eds along was a
woman whose entire head was covered in fur; Harry rememered something similar happening
to Hermione during their second year, although fortunately the damage, in her case, had not een
permanent. At the far end of the ward flowery curtains had een drawn around two eds to give
the occupants and their visitors some privacy.
"Here you are, Agnes," said the Healer rightly to the furry-faced woman, handing her a small
pile of Christmas presents. "See, not forgotten, are you? And your son’s sent an owl to say he’s
visiting tonight, so that’s nice, isn’t it?"
Agnes gave several loud arks.
"And look, Broderick, you’ve een sent a potted plant and a lovely calendar with a different fancy Hippogriff for each month; they’ll righten things up, won’t they?" said the Healer, ustling along to the mumling man, setting a rather ugly plant with long, swaying tentacles on the edside cainet and fixing the calendar to the wall with her wand. "And - oh, Mrs. Longottom, are you leaving already?"
Harry’s head span round. The curtains had een drawn ack from the two eds at the end of the
ward and two visitors were walking ack down the aisle etween the eds: a formidale-looking
old witch wearing a long green dress, a moth-eaten fox fur and a pointed hat decorated with what
was unmistakealy a stuffed vulture and, trailing ehind her looking thoroughly depressed -
Neville.
With a sudden rush of understanding, Harry realized who the people in the end eds must e. He
cast around wildly for some means of distracting the others so that Neville could leave the ward
unnoticed and unquestioned, ut Ron had also looked up at the sound of the name "Longottom", and efore Harry could stop him had called out, "Neville!"
Neville jumped and cowered as though a ullet had narrowly missed him.
"It’s us, Neville!" said Ron rightly, getting to h i s feet. "Have you seen -? Lockhart’s here!
Who’ve you een visiting?"
"Friends of yours, Neville, dear?" said Neville’s grandmother graciously, earing down upon
them all.
Neville looked as though he would rather e anywhere in the world ut here. A dull purple flush
was creeping up his plump face and he was not making eye contact with any of them.
"Ah, yes," said his grandmother, looking closely at Harry and sticking out a shrivelled, clawlike
hand for him to shake. "Yes, yes, I know who you are, of course. Neville speaks most highly of
you."
"Er - thanks," said Harry, shaking hands. Neville did not look at him, ut surveyed his own feet,
the color deepening in his face all the while.
"And you two are clearly Weasleys," Mrs. Longottom continued, proffering her hand regally to
Ron and Ginny in turn. "Yes, I know your parents -- not well, of course -- ut fine people, fine
people... and you must e Hermione Granger?"
Hermione looked rather startled that Mrs. Longottom knew her name, ut shook hands all the
same.
"Yes, Neville’s told me all aout you. Helped him out of a few sticky spots, haven’t you? He’s a
good oy," she said, casting a sternly appraising look down her rather ony nose at Neville, "ut
he hasn’t got his father’s talent, I’m afraid to say." And she jerked her head in the direction of the two eds at the end of the ward, so that the stuffed vulture on her hat tremled alarmingly.
"What?" said Ron, looking amazed. (Harry wanted to stamp on Ron’s foot, ut that sort of thing
is much harder to ring off unnoticed when you’re wearing jeans rather than roes.) "Is that
your dad down the end, Neville?"
"What’s this?" said Mrs. Longottom sharply. "Haven’t you told your friends aout your parents, Neville?"
Neville took a deep reath, looked up at the ceiling and shook his head. Harry could not
rememer ever feeling sorrier for anyone, ut he could not think of any way of helping Neville
out of the situation.
"Well, it’s nothing to e ashamed of!" said Mrs. Longottom angrily. "You should e proud,
Neville, proud! They didn’t give their health and their sanity so their only son would e ashamed of them, you know!"
"I’m not ashamed," said Neville, very faintly, still looking anywhere ut at Harry and the others.
Ron was now standing on tiptoe to look over at the inhaitants of the two eds.
"Well, you’ve got a funny way of showing it!" said Mrs. Longottom. "My son and his wife," she said, turning haughtily to Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny, "were tortured into insanity y You- Know-Who’s followers."
Hermione and Ginny oth clapped their hands over their mouths. Ron stopped craning his neck
to catch a glimpse of Neville’s parents and looked mortified.
"They were Aurors, you know, and very well respected within the wizarding community" Mrs.
Longottom went on. "Highly gifted, the pair of them. I - yes, Alice dear, what is it?"
Neville’s mother had come edging down the ward in her nightdress. She no longer had the
plump, happy-looking face Harry had seen in Moody’s old photograph of the original Order of
the Phoenix. Her face was thin and worn now, her eyes seemed overlarge and her hair, which had
turned white, was wispy and dead-looking. She did not seem to want to speak, or perhaps she
was not ale to, ut she made timid motions towards Neville, holding something in her
outstretched hand.
"Again?" said Mrs. Longottom, sounding slightly weary. "Very well, Alice dear, very well -
Neville, take it, whatever it is."
But Neville had already stretched out his hand, into which his mother dropped an empty
Droole’s Best Blowing Gum wrapper.
"Very nice, dear," said Neville’s grandmother in a falsely cheery voice, patting his mother on the
shoulder.
But Neville said quietly, "Thanks, Mum."
His mother tottered away, ack up the ward, humming to herself. Neville looked around at the
others, his expression defiant, as though daring them to laugh, ut Harry did not think he’d ever
found anything less funny in his life.
"Well, we’d etter get ack," sighed Mrs Longottom, drawing on long green gloves. "Very nice
to have met you all. Neville, put that wrapper in the in, she must have given you enough of
them to paper your edroom y now."
But as they left, Harry was sure he saw Neville slip the candy wrapper into his pocket.
The door closed ehind them.
"I never knew," said Hermione, who looked tearful.
"Nor did I," said Ron rather hoarsely.
"Nor me," whispered Ginny.
They all looked at Harry.
"I did," he said glumly. "Dumledore told me ut I promised I wouldn’t tell anyone... that’s what Bellatrix Lestrange got sent to Azkaan for, using the Cruciatus Curse on Neville’s parents until they lost their minds."
"Bellatrix Lestrange did that?" whispered Hermione, horrified. "That woman Kreacher’s got a
photo of in his den?"
There was a long silence, roken y Lockharts angry voice.
"Look, I didn’t learn joined-up writing for nothing, you know!"
CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
Occlumency
Kreacher, it transpired, had een lurking in the attic. Sirius said he had found him up there,
covered in dust, no dout looking for more relics of the Black family to hide in his cupoard.
Though Sirius seemed satisfied with this story, it made Harry uneasy. Kreacher seemed to e in a
etter mood on his reappearance, his itter muttering had susided somewhat and he sumitted
to orders more docilely than usual, though once or twice Harry caught the house-elf staring at
him avidly, ut always looking quickly away whenever he saw that Harry had noticed.
Harry did not mention his vague suspicions to Sirius, whose cheerfulness was evaporating fast
now that Christmas was over. As the date of their departure ack to Hogwarts drew nearer, he
ecame more and more prone to what Mrs. Weasley call ed ‘fits of the sullens’, in which he would ecome taciturn and grumpy, often withdrawing to Buckeak’s room for hours at a time. His gloom seeped through the house, oozing under doorways like some noxious gas, so that all of them ecame infected y it.
Harry didn’t want to leave Sirius again with only Kreacher for company; in fact, for the first time
in his life, he was not looking forward to returning to Hogwarts. Going ack to school would
mean placing himself once again under the tyranny of Dolores Umridge, who had no dout
managed to force through another dozen decrees in their asence; there was no Quidditch to look
forward to now that he had een anned; there was every likelihood that their urden of
homework would increase as the exams drew even nearer; and Dumledore remained as remote
as ever. In fact, if it hadn’t een for the D.A., Harry thought he might have egged Sirius to let
him leave Hogwarts and remain in Grimmauld Place.
Then, on the very last day of the holidays, something happened that made Harry positively dread
his return to school.
"Harry, dear," said Mrs. Weasley, poking her head in to his and Ron’s edroom, where the pair of them were playing wizard chess watched y Hermione, Ginny and Crookshanks, "could you
come down to the kitchen? Professor Snape would like a word with you."
Harry did not immediately register what she had said; one of his castles was engaged in a violent
tussle with a pawn of Rons and he was egging it on enthusiastically.
"Squash him - squash him, he’s only a pawn, you idiot. Sorry, Mrs. Weasley, what did you say?"
"Professor Snape, dear. In the kitchen. He’d like a word."
Harry’s mouth fell open in horror. He looked around at Ron, Hermione and Ginny, all of whom
were gaping ack at him. Crookshanks, whom Hermione had een restraining with difficulty for
the past quarter of an hour, leapt gleefully on to the oard and set the pieces running for cover,
squealing at the top of their voices.
"Snape?" said Harry lankly.
"Professor Snape, dear," said Mrs. Weasley reprovingly. "Now come on, quickly, he says he can’t stay long."
"What’s he want with you?" said Ron, looking unnerved as Mrs. Weasley withdrew from the
room. "You haven’t done anything, have you?"
"No!" said Harry indignantly, racking his rains to think what he could have done that would
make Snape pursue him to Grimmauld Place. Had his last piece of homework perhaps earned a T?
A minute or two later, he pushed open the kitchen door to find Sirius and Snape oth seated at
the long kitchen tale, glaring in opposite directions. The silence etween them was heavy with
mutual dislike. A letter lay open on the tale in front of Sirius.
"Er," said Harry, to announce his presence.
Snape looked around at him, his face framed etween curtains of greasy lack hair.
"Sit down, Potter."
"You know," said Sirius loudly, leaning ack on his rear chair legs and speaking to the ceiling, "I
think I’d prefer it if you didn’t give orders here, Snape. It’s my house, you see."
An ugly flush suffused Snape’s pallid face. Harry sat down in a chair eside Sirius, facing Snape
across the tale.
"I was supposed to see you alone, Potter," said Snape, the familiar sneer curling his mouth, "ut
Black -"
"I’m his godfather," said Sirius, louder than ever.
"I am here on Dumledore’s orders," said Snape, whose voice, y contrast, was ecoming more
and more quietly waspish, "ut y all means stay, Black, I know you like to feel... involved."
"What’s that supposed to mean?" said Sirius, letting his chair fall ack on to all four legs with a
loud ang.
"Merely that I am sure you must feel - ah - frustrated y the fact that you can do nothing useful,"
Snape laid a delicate stress on the word, "for the Order."
It was Sirius’s turn to flush. Snape’s lip curled in triumph as he turned to Harry.
"The Headmaster has sent me to tell you, Potter, that it is his wish for you to study Occlumency
this term."
"Study what?" said Harry lankly.
Snape’s sneer ecame more pronounced.
"Occlumency, Potter. The magical Defense of the mind against external penetration. An oscure
ranch of magic, ut a highly useful one."
Harry’s heart egan to pump very fast indeed. Defense against external penetration? But he was
not eing possessed, they had all agreed on that...
"Why do I have to study Occlu -- thing?" he lurted out.
"Because the Headmaster thinks it a good idea," said Snape smoothly. "You will receive private
lessons once a week, ut you will not tell anyody what you are doing, least of all Dolores
Umridge. You understand?"
"Yes," said Harry. "Who’s going to e teaching me?"
Snape raised an eyerow.
"I am," he said.
Harry had the horrile sensation that his insides were melting.
Extra lessons with Snape - what on earth had he done to deserve this? He looked quickly round
at Sirius for support.
"Why can’t Dumledore teach Harry?" asked Sirius aggressively. "Why you?"
"I suppose ecause it is a headmaster’s privilege to delegate less enjoyale tasks," said Snape
silkily. "I assure you I did not eg for the jo." He got to his feet. "I will expect you at six o’clock on Monday evening, Potter. My office. If anyody asks, you are taking remedial Potions.
Noody who has seen you in my classes could deny you need them."
He turned to leave, his lack traveling cloak illowing ehind him.
"Wait a moment," said Sirius, sitting up straighter in his chair.
Snape turned ack to face them, sneering.
"I am in rather a hurry, Black. Unlike you, I do not have unlimited leisure time."
"I’ll get to the point, then," said Sirius, standing up. He was rather taller than Snape who, Harry
noticed, alled his fist in the pocket of his cloak over what Harry was sure was the handle of his
wand. "If I hear you’re using these Occlumency lessons to give Harry a hard time, you’ll have
me to answer to."
"How touching," Snape sneered. "But surely you have noticed that Potter is very like his father?"
"Yes, I have," said Sirius proudly.
"Well then, you’ll know he’s so arrogant that criticism simply ounces off him," Snape said
sleekly.
Sirius pushed his chair roughly aside and strode around the tale towards Snape, pulling out his
wand as he went. Snape whipped out his own. They were squaring up to each other, Sirius
looking livid, Snape calculating, his eyes darting from Sirius’s wand-tip to his face.
"Sirius!" said Harry loudly, ut Sirius appeared not to hear him.
"I’ve warned you, Snivellus," said Sirius, his face arely a foot from Snape’s, "I don’t care if
Dumledore thinks you’ve reformed, I know etter -"
"Oh, ut why don’t you tell him so?" whispered Snape. "Or are you afraid he might not take very
seriously the advice of a man who has een hiding inside his mother’s house for six months?"
"Tell me, how is Lucius Malfoy these days? I expect he’s delighted his lapdog’s working at
Hogwarts, isn’t he?"
"Speaking of dogs," said Snape softly, "did you know that Lucius Malfoy recognized you last
time you risked a little jaunt outside? Clever idea, Black, getting yourself seen on a safe station
platform... gave you a cast-iron excuse not to leave your hidey-hole in future, didn’t it?"
Sirius raised his wand.
"NO!" Harry yelled, vaulting over the tale and trying to get in etween them. "Sirius, don’t!"
"Are you calling me a coward?" roared Sirius, trying to push Harry out of the way, ut Harry
would not udge.
"Why, yes, I suppose I am," said Snape.
"Harry - get - out - of - it!" snarled Sirius, pushing him aside with his free hand.
The kitchen door opened and the entire Weasley family, plus Hermione, came inside, all looking
very happy, with Mr. Weasley walking proudly in thei r midst dressed in a pair of striped pajamass covered y a mackintosh.
"Cured!" he announced rightly to the kitchen at large. "Completely cured!"
He and all the other Weasleys froze on the threshold, gazing at the scene in front of them, which
was also suspended in mid-action, oth Sirius and Snape looking towards the door with their
wands pointing into each other’s faces and Harry immoile etween them, a hand stretched out
to each, trying to force them apart.
"Merlin’s eard," said Mr. Weasley, the smile slidin g off his face, "what’s going on here?"
Both Sirius and Snape lowered their wands. Harry looked from one to the other. Each wore an
expression of utmost contempt, yet the unexpected entrance of so many witnesses seemed to
have rought them to their senses. Snape pocketed his wand, turned on his heel and swept ack
across the kitchen, passing the Weasleys without comment. At the door he looked ack.
"Six o’clock, Monday evening, Potter."
And he was gone. Sirius glared after him, his wand at his side.
"What’s een going on?" asked Mr. Weasley again.
"Nothing, Arthur," said Sirius, who was reathing heavily as though he had just run a long
distance. "Just a friendly little chat etween two old school friends." With what looked like an
enormous effort, he smiled. "So... you’re cured? That’s great news, really great."
"Yes, isn’t it?" said Mrs. Weasley, leading her hus and forward to a chair. "Healer Smethwyck
worked his magic in the end, found an antidote to whatever that snake’s got in its fangs, and
Arthur’s learned his lesson aout daling in Muggle medicine, haven’t you, dear?" she added,
rather menacingly.
"Yes, Molly, dear," said Mr. Weasley meekly.
That night’s meal should have een a cheerful one, with Mr. Weasley ack amongst them. Harry
could tell Sirius was trying to make it so, yet when his godfather was not forcing himself to
laugh loudly at Fred and George’s jokes or offering everyone more food, his face fell ack into a
moody, rooding expression. Harry was separated from him y Mundungus and Mad-Eye, who
had dropped in to offer Mr. Weasley their congratulations. He wanted to talk to Sirius, to tell him
he shouldn’t listen to a word Snape said, that Snape was goading him delierately and that the
rest of them didn’t think Sirius was a coward for doing as Dumledore told him and remaining in
Grimmauld Place. But he had no opportunity to do so, and, eyeing the ugly look on Sirius’s face,
Harry wondered occasionally whether he would have dared to mention it even if he had the
chance. Instead, he told Ron and Hermione under his voice aout having to take Occlumency
lessons with Snape.
"Dumledore wants to stop you having those dreams aout Voldemort," said Hermione at once. "Well, you won’t e sorry not to have them any more, will you?"
"Extra lessons with Snape?" said Ron, sounding aghast. "I’d rather have the nightmares!"
They were to return to Hogwarts on the Knight Bus the following day, escorted once again y
Tonks and Lupin, oth of whom were eating reakfast in the kitchen when Harry, Ron and
Hermione came down next morning. The adults seemed to have een mid-way through a
whispered conversation as Harry opened the door; all of them looked round hastily and fell
silent.
After a hurried reakfast, they all pulled on jackets and scarves against the chilly grey January
morning. Harry had an unpleasant constricted sensation in his chest; he did not want to say
goodye to Sirius. He had a ad feeling aout this parting; he didn’t know when they would next
see each other and he felt it was incument upon him to say something to Sirius to stop him
doing anything stupid - Harry was worried that Snape’s accusation of cowardice had stung Sirius
so adly he might even now e planning some foolhardy trip eyond Grimmauld Place. Before
he could think of what to say, however, Sirius had eckoned him to his side.
"I want you to take this," he said quietly, thrusting a adly wrapped package roughly the size of a paperack ook into Harry’s hands.
"What is it?" Harry asked.
"A way of letting me know if Snape’s giving you a hard time. No, don’t open it in here!" said
Sirius, with a wary look at Mrs. Weasley, who was trying to persuade the twins to wear handknitted mittens. "I dout Molly would approve - ut I want you to use it if you need me, all
right?"
"Okay," said Harry, stowing the package away in the inside pocket of his jacket, ut he knew he
would never use whatever it was. It would not e he, Harry, who lured Sirius from his place of
safety, no matter how foully Snape treated him in their forthcoming Occlumency classes.
"Let’s go, then," said Sirius, clapping Harry on the shoulder and smiling grimly, and efore
Harry could say anything else, they were heading upstairs, stopping efore the heavily chained
and olted front door, surrounded y Weasleys.
"Goodye, Harry, take care," said Mrs. Weasley, hugg ing him.
"See you, Harry, and keep an eye out for snakes for me!" said Mr. Weasley genially, shaking his
hand.
"Right - yeah," said Harry distractedly; it was his last chance to tell Sirius to e careful; he
turned, looked into his godfather’s face: and opened his mouth to speak, ut efore he could do
so Sirius was giving him a rief, one-armed hug, and saying gruffly, "Look after yourself,
Harry." Next moment, Harry found himself eing shunted out into the icy winter air, with Tonks
(today heavily disguised as a tall, tweedy woman with iron-grey hair) chivvying him down the
steps.
The door of numer twelve slammed shut ehind them. They followed Lupin down the front
steps. As he reached the pavement, Harry looked round. Numer twelve was shrinking rapidly as
those on either side of it stretched sideways, squeezing it out of sight. One link later, it had
gone.
"Come on, the quicker we get on the us the etter," said Tonks, and Harry thought there was
nervousness in the glance she threw around the square. Lupin flung out his right arm.
BANG.
A violently purple, triple-decker us had appeared out of thin air in front of them, narrowly
avoiding the nearest lamppost, which jumped ackwards out of its way.
A thin, pimply, jug-eared youth in a purple uniform leapt down on to the pavement and said,
"Welcome to the -"
"Yes, yes, we know, thank you," said Tonks swiftly. "On, on, get on -"
And she shoved Harry forwards towards the steps, past the conductor, who goggled at Harry as
he passed.
"Ere - it’s ‘Arry -!"
"If you shout his name I will curse you into olivion," muttered Tonks menacingly, now shunting
Ginny and Hermione forwards.
"I’ve always wanted to go on this thing," said Ron happily, joining Harry on oard and looking
around.
It had een evening the last time Harry had traveled y Knight Bus and its three decks had een
full of rass edsteads. Now, in the early morning, it was crammed with an assortment of
mismatched chairs grouped haphazardly around windows. Some of these appeared to have fallen
over when the us stopped aruptly in Grimmauld Place; a few witches and wizards were still
getting to their feet, grumling, and someody’s shopping ag had slid the length of the us: an
unpleasant mixture of frogspawn, cockroaches and custard creams was scattered all over the
floor.
"Looks like we’ll have to split up," said Tonks riskly, looking around for empty chairs. "Fred,
George and Ginny, if you just take those seats at the ack... Remus can stay with you."
She, Harry, Ron and Hermione proceeded up to the very top deck, where there were two
unoccupied chairs at the very front of the us and two at the ack. Stan Shunpike, the conductor,
followed Harry and Ron eagerly to the ack. Heads turned as Harry passed and, when he sat
down, he saw all the faces flick ack to the front again.
As Harry and Ron handed Stan eleven Sickles each, the us set off again, swaying ominously. It
rumled around Grimmauld Place, weaving on and off the pavement, then, with another
tremendous BANG, they were all flung ackwards; Ron’s chair toppled right over and
Pigwidgeon, who had een on his lap, urst out of his cage and flew twittering wildly up to the
front of the us where he fluttered down on to Hermione’s shoulder instead. Harry, who had
narrowly avoided falling y seizing a candle racket, looked out of the window: they were now
speeding down what appeared to e a motorway.
"Just outside Birmingham," said Stan happily, answe ring Harry’s unasked question as Ron
struggled up from the floor. "You keepin’ well, then, ‘Arry? I seen your name in the paper loads
over the summer, ut it weren’t never nuffink very nice. I said to Ern, I said, ‘e didn’t seem like a
nutter when we met ‘im, just goes to show, dunnit?"
He handed over their tickets and continued to gaze, enthralled, at Harry. Apparently, Stan did not
care how nutty someody was, if they were famous enough to e in the paper. The Knight Bus
swayed alarmingly, overtaking a line of cars on the inside. Looking towards the front of the us,
Harry saw Hermione cover her eyes with her hands, Pigwidgeon swaying happily on her
shoulder.
BANG.
Chairs slid ackwards again as the Knight Bus jumped from the Birmingham motorway to a
quiet country lane full of hairpin ends. Hedgerows on either side of the road were leaping out of
their way as they mounted the verges. From here they moved to a main street in the middle of a
usy town, then to a viaduct surrounded y tall hills, then to a windswept road etween high-rise
flats, each time with a loud BANG.
"I’ve changed my mind," muttered Ron, picking himse lf up from the floor for the sixth time, "I
never want to ride on this thing again."
"Listen, it’s ‘Ogwarts stop after this," said Stan rightly, swaying towards them. "That ossy
woman up front ‘oo got on with you, she’s given us a little tip to move you up the queue. We’re
just gonna let Madam Marsh off first, though -" there was more retching from downstairs, followed y a horrile spattering sound "- she’s not feeling ‘er est."
A few minutes later, the Knight Bus screeched to a halt outside a small pu, which squeezed
itself out of the way to avoid a collision. They could hear Stan ushering the unfortunate Madam
Marsh out of the us and the relieved murmurings of her fellow passengers on the second deck.
The us moved on again, gathering speed, until -
BANG.
They were rolling through a snowy Hogsmeade. Harry caught a glimpse of the Hog’s Head down
its side street, the severed oar’s head sign creaking in the wintry wind. Flecks of snow hit the
large window at the front of the us. At last they rolled to a halt outside the gates to Hogwarts.
Lupin and Tonks helped them off the us with their luggage, then got off to say goodye. Harry
glanced up at the three decks of the Knight Bus and saw all the passengers staring down at them,
noses flat against the windows.
"You’ll e safe once you’re in the grounds," said Tonks, casting a careful eye around at the
deserted road. "Have a good term, okay?"
"Look after yourselves," said Lupin, shaking hands all round and reaching Harry last. "And
listen..." he lowered his voice while the rest of the m exchanged last-minute goodyes with
Tonks, "Harry, I know you don’t like Snape, ut he is a super Occlumens and we all - Sirius
included - want you to learn to protect yourself, so work hard, all right?"
"Yeah, all right," said Harry heavily, looking up into Lupin’s prematurely lined face. "See you,
then."
The six of them struggled up the slippery drive towards the castle, dragging their trunks.
Hermione was already talking aout knitting a few elf hats efore edtime. Harry glanced ack
when they reached the oaken front doors; the Knight Bus had already gone and he half-wished,
given what was coming the following evening, that he was still on oard.
Harry spent most of the next day dreading the evening. His morning doule-Potions lesson did
nothing to dispel his trepidation, as Snape was as unpleasant as ever. His mood was further
lowered y the D.A. memers constantly approaching him in the corridors etween classes, askinghopefully if there would e a meeting that night.
"I’ll let you know in the usual way when the next one is," Harry said over and over again, "ut I
can’t do it tonight, I’ve got to go to - er - remedial Potions."
"You take remedial Potions!" asked Zacharias Smith superciliously, having cornered Harry in the Entrance Hall after lunch. "Good Lord, you must e terrile. Snape doesn’t usually give extra
lessons, does he?"
As Smith strode away in an annoyingly uoyant fashion, Ron glared after him.
"Shall I jinx him? I can still get him from here," he said, raising his wand and taking aim etween Smith’s shoulder lades.
"Forget it," said Harry dismally. "It’s what everyone’s going to think, isn’t it? That I’m really
stup --"
"Hi, Harry," said a voice ehind him. He turned round and found Cho standing there.
"Oh," said Harry as his stomach leapt uncomfortaly. "Hi."
"We’ll e in the lirary, Harry," said Hermione firmly as she seized Ron aove the elow and
dragged him off towards the marle staircase.
"Had a good Christmas?" asked Cho.
"Yeah, not ad," said Harry.
"Mine was pretty quiet," said Cho. For some reason, she was looking rather emarrassed.
"Erm... there’s another Hogsmeade trip next month, did you see the notice?"
"What? Oh, no, I haven’t checked the noticeoard since I got ack."
"Yes, it’s on Valentine’s Day..."
"Right," said Harry, wondering why she was telling him this. "Well, I suppose you want to -?"
"Only if you do," she said eagerly.
Harry stared. He had een aout to say, "I suppose you want to know when the next D.A. meetingis?" ut her response did not seem to fit.
"I - er --" he said.
"Oh, it’s okay if you don’t," she said, looking mortified. "Don’t worry. I - I’ll see you around."
She walked away. Harry stood staring after her, his rain working frantically. Then something
clunked into place.
"Cho! Hey - CHO!"
He ran after her, catching her halfway up the marle staircase.
"Er - d’you want to come into Hogsmeade with me on Valentine’s Day?"
"Oooh, yes!" she said, lushing crimson and eaming at him.
"Right... well... that’s settled then," said Harry, and feeling that the day was not going to e a
complete loss after all, he headed off to the lirary to pick up Ron and Hermione efore their afternoon lessons, walking in a rather ouncy way himself.
By six o’clock that evening, however, even the glow of having successfully asked out Cho
Chang could not lighten the ominous feelings that intensified with every step Harry took towards
Snape’s office.
He paused outside the door when he reached it, wishing he were almost anywhere else, then,
taking a deep reath, he knocked and entered.
The shadowy room was lined with shelves earing hundreds of glass jars in which slimy its of
animals and plants were suspended in variously colored potions. In one corner stood the
cupoard full of ingredients that Snape had once accused Harry - not without reason - of roing.
Harry’s attention was drawn towards the desk, however, where a shallow stone asin engraved
with runes and symols lay in a pool of candlelight. Harry recognized it at once - it was
Dumledore’s Pensieve. Wondering what on earth it was doing there, he jumped when Snape’s
cold voice came out of the shadows.
"Shut the door ehind you, Potter."
Harry did as he was told, with the horrile feeling that he was imprisoning himself. When he
turned ack into the room, Snape had moved into the light and was pointing silently at the chair
opposite his desk. Harry sat down and so did Snape, his cold lack eyes fixed unlinkingly upon
Harry, dislike etched in every line of his face.
"Well, Potter, you know why you are here," he said. "The Headmaster has asked me to teach you
Occlumency. I can only hope that you prove more adept at it than at Potions."
"Right," said Harry tersely.
"This may not e an ordinary class, Potter," said Snape, his eyes narrowed malevolently, "ut I
am still your teacher and you will therefore call me ‘sir’ or ‘professor’ at all times."
"Yes... sir," said Harry.
Snape continued to survey him through narrowed eyes for a moment, then said, "Now,
Occlumency. As I told you ack in your dear godfather’s kitchen, this ranch of magic seals the
mind against magical intrusion and influence."
"And why does Professor Dumledore think I need it, sir?" said Harry, looking directly into
Snape’s eyes and wondering whether Snape would answer.
Snape looked ack at him for a moment and then said contemptuously, "Surely even you could
have worked that out y now, Potter? The Dark Lord is highly skilled at Legilimency -"
"What’s that? Sir?"
"It is the aility to extract feelings and memories from another persons mind -"
"He can read minds?" said Harry quickly, his worst fears confirmed.
"You have no sutlety, Potter," said Snape, his dark eyes glittering. "You do not understand fine
distinctions. It is one of the shortcomings that makes you such a lamentale potion-maker."
Snape paused for a moment, apparently to savor the pleasure of insulting Harry, efore
continuing.
"Only Muggles talk of ‘mind-reading’. The mind is not a ook, to e opened at will and examined at leisure. Thoughts are not etched on the inside of skulls, to e perused y any invader. The mind is a complex and many-layered thing, Potter - or at least, most minds are." He smirked. "It is true, however, that those who have mastered Legilimency are ale, under certain
conditions, to delve into the minds of their victims and to interpret their findings correctly. The Dark Lord, for instance, almost always knows when someody is lying to him. Only those skilled at Occlumency are ale to shut down those feelings and memories that contradict the lie, and so can utter falsehoods in his presence without detection."
Whatever Snape said, Legilimency sounded like mind-reading to Harry, and he didn’t like the
sound of it at all.
"So he could know what we’re thinking right now? Sir?"
"The Dark Lord is at a considerale distance and the walls and grounds of Hogwarts are guarded
y many ancient spells and charms to ensure the odily and mental safety of those who dwell
within them," said Snape. "Time and space matter in magic, Potter. Eye contact is often essential
to Legilimency."
"Well then, why do I have to learn Occlumency?"
Snape eyed Harry, tracing his mouth with one long, thin finger as he did so.
"The usual rules do not seem to apply with you, Potter. The curse that failed to kill you seems to
have forged some kind of connection etween you and the Dark Lord. The evidence suggests
that at times, when your mind is most relaxed and vulnerale - when you are asleep, for instance
- you are sharing the Dark Lord’s thoughts and emotions. The Headmaster thinks it inadvisale
for this to continue. He wishes me to teach you how to close your mind to the Dark Lord."
Harry’s heart was pumping fast again. None of this added up.
"But why does Professor Dumledore want to stop it?" he asked aruptly. "I don’t like it much,
ut it’s een useful, hasn’t it? I mean... I saw that snake attack Mr. Weasley and if I hadn’t,
Professor Dumledore wouldn’t have een ale to save him, would he? Sir?"
Snape stared at Harry for a few moments, still tracing his mouth with his finger. When he spoke
again, it was slowly and delierately, as though he weighed every word.
"It appears that the Dark Lord has een unaware of the connection etween you and himself until
very recently. Up till now it seems that you have een experiencing his emotions, and sharing his
thoughts, without his eing any the wiser. However, the vision you had shortly efore Christmas
-"
"The one with the snake and Mr. Weasley?"
"Do not interrupt me, Potter," said Snape in a dangerous voice. "As I was saying, the vision you
had shortly efore Christmas represented such a powerful incursion upon the Dark Lord’s
thoughts -"
"I saw inside the snake’s head, not his!"
"I thought I just told you not to interrupt me, Potter?"
But Harry did not care if Snape was angry; at last he seemed to e getting to the ottom of this
usiness; he had moved forwards in his chair so that, without realizing it, he was perched on the
very edge, tense as though poised for flight.
"How come I saw through the snakes eyes if it’s Voldemort’s thoughts I’m sharing?"
"Do not say the Dark Lord’s name!" spat Snape.
There was a nasty silence. They glared at each other across the Pensieve.
"Professor Dumledore says his name," said Harry quietly.
"Dumledore is an extremely powerful wizard," Snape muttered. "While he may feel secure
enough to use the name... the rest of us..." He rued his left forearm, apparently unconsciously, on the spot where Harry knew the Dark Mark was urned into his skin.
"I just wanted to know," Harry egan again, forcing his voice ack to politeness, "why -"
"You seem to have visited the snake’s mind ecause that was where the Dark Lord was at that
particular moment," snarled Snape. "He was possessing the snake at the time and so you dreamed you were inside it, too."
"And Vol-- he - realized I was there?"
"It seems so," said Snape coolly.
"How do you know?" said Harry urgently. "Is this just Professor Dumledore guessing, or -?"
"I told you," said Snape, rigid in his chair, his eyes slits, "to call me ‘sir’."
"Yes, sir," said Harry impatiently, "ut how do you know -?"
"It is enough that we know," said Snape repressively. "The important point is that the Dark Lord is now aware that you are gaining access to his thoughts and feelings. He has also deduced that the process is likely to work in reverse; that is to say, he has realized that he might e ale to
access your thoughts and feelings in return -"
"And he might try and make me do things?" asked Harry. "Sir?" he added hurriedly.
"He might," said Snape, sounding cold and unconcerned. "Which rings us ack to Occlumency."
Snape pulled out his wand from an inside pocket of his roes and Harry tensed in his chair, ut
Snape merely raised the wand to his temple and placed its tip into the greasy roots of his hair.
When he withdrew it, some silvery sustance came away, stretching from temple to wand like a
thick gossamer strand, which roke as he pulled the wand away from it and fell gracefully into
the Pensieve, where it swirled silvery-white, neither gas nor liquid. Twice more, Snape raised the
wand to his temple and deposited the silvery sustance into the stone asin, then, without
offering any explanation of his ehavior, he picked up the Pensieve carefully, removed it to a
shelf out of their way and returned to face Harry with his wand held at the ready.
"Stand up and take out your wand, Potter."
Harry got to his feet, feeling nervous. They faced each other with the desk etween them.
"You may use your wand to attempt to disarm me, or defend yourself in any other way you can
think of," said Snape.
"And what are you going to do?" Harry asked, eyeing Snape’s wand apprehensively.
"I am aout to attempt to reak into your mind," said Snape softly. "We are going to see how well you resist. I have een told that you have already shown aptitude at resisting the Imperius Curse. You will find that similar powers are needed for this... race yourself, now. Legilimens!"
Snape had struck efore Harry was ready, efore he had even egun to summon any force of
resistance. The office swam in front of his eyes and vanished; image after image was racing
through his mind like a flickering film so vivid it linded him to his surroundings.
He was five, watching Dudley riding a new red icycle, and his heart was ursting with
jealousy... he was nine, and Ripper the ulldog was chasing him up a tree and the Dursleys were
laughing elow on the lawn... he was sitting under the Sorting Hat, and it was telling him he
would do well in Slytherin... Hermione was lying in the hospital wing, her face covered with
thick lack hair... a hundred Dementors were closing in on him eside the dark lake... Cho
Chang was drawing nearer to him under the mistletoe...
"No," said a voice inside Harry’s head, as the memory of Cho drew nearer, "you’re not watching
that, you’re not watching it, it’s private -"
He felt a sharp pain in his knee. Snape’s office had come ack into view and he realized that he
had fallen to the floor; one of his knees had collided painfully with the leg of Snape’s desk. He
looked up at Snape, who had lowered his wand and was ruing his wrist. There was an angry
weal there, like a scorch mark.
"Did you mean to produce a Stinging Hex?" asked Snape coolly.
"No," said Harry itterly, getting up from the floor.
"I thought not," said Snape, watching him closely. "You let me get in too far. You lost control."
"Did you see everything I saw?" Harry asked, unsure whether he wanted to hear the answer.
"Flashes of it," said Snape, his lip curling. "To whom did the dog elong?"
"My Aunt Marge," Harry muttered, hating Snape.
"Well, for a first attempt that was not as poor as it might have een," said Snape, raising his wand once more. "You managed to stop me eventually, though you wasted time and energy shouting. You must remain focused. Repel me with your rain and you will not need to resort to your wand."
"I’m trying," said Harry angrily, "ut you’re not telling me how!"
"Manners, Potter," said Snape dangerously. "Now, I want you to close your eyes."
Harry threw him a filthy look efore doing as he was told. He did not like the idea of standing
there with his eyes shut while Snape faced him, carrying a wand.
"Clear your mind, Potter," said Snape’s cold voice. "Let go of all emotion..."
But Harry’s anger at Snape continued to pound through his veins like venom. Let go of his
anger? He could as easily detach his legs...
"You’re not doing it, Potter... you will need more discipline than this... focus, now..."
Harry tried to empty his mind, tried not to think, or rememer, or feel...
"Let’s go again... on the count of three... one - two - three -Legilimens!"
A great lack dragon was rearing in front of him... his father and mother were waving at him out
of an enchanted mirror... Cedric Diggory was lying on the ground with lank eyes staring at
him...
"NOOOOOOO!"
Harry was on his knees again, his face uried in his hands, his rain aching as though someone
had een trying to pull it from his skull.
"Get up!" said Snape sharply. "Get up! You are not trying, you are making no effort. You are
allowing me access to memories you fear, handing me weapons!"
Harry stood up again, his heart thumping wildly as though he had really just seen Cedric dead in
the graveyard. Snape looked paler than usual, and angrier, though not nearly as angry as Harry
was.
"I - am - making - an - effort," he said through clenched teeth.
"I told you to empty yourself of emotion!"
"Yeah? Well, I’m finding that hard at the moment," Harry snarled.
"Then you will find yourself easy prey for the Dark Lord!" said Snape savagely. "Fools who wear their hearts proudly on their sleeves, who cannot control their emotions, who wallow in sad
memories and allow themselves to e provoked so easily - weak people, in other words - they
stand no chance against his powers! He will penetrate your mind with asurd ease, Potter!"
"I am not weak," said Harry in a low voice, fury now pumping through him so that he thought he might attack Snape in a moment.
"Then prove it! Master yourself!" spat Snape. "Control your anger, discipline your mind! We
shall try again! Get ready, now! Legilimens!"
He was watching Uncle Vernon hammering the letterox shut... a hundred Dementors were
drifting across the lake in the grounds towards him... he was running along a windowless
passage with Mr. Weasley... they were drawing nearer to the plain lack door at the end of the
corridor... Harry expected to go through it... ut Mr. Weasley led him off to the left, down a
flight of stone steps...
"I KNOW! I KNOW!"
He was on all fours again on Snape’s office floor, his scar was prickling unpleasantly, ut the
voice that had just issued from his mouth was triumphant. He pushed himself up again to find
Snape staring at him, his wand raised. It looked as though, this time, Snape had lifted the spell
efore Harry had even tried to fight ack.
"What happened then, Potter?" he asked, eyeing Harry intently.
"I saw - I rememered," Harry panted. "I’ve just realized..."
"Realized what?" asked Snape sharply.
Harry did not answer at once; he was still savoring the moment of linding realization as he
rued his forehead...
He had een dreaming aout a windowless corridor ending in a locked door for months, without
once realizing that it was a real place. Now, seeing the memory again, he knew that all along he
had een dreaming aout the corridor down which he had run with Mr. Weasley on the twelfth of
August as they hurried to the courtrooms in the Ministry; it was the corridor leading to the
Department of Mysteries and Mr. Weasley had een there the night that he had een attacked y
Voldemort’s snake.
He looked up at Snape.
"What’s in the Department of Mysteries?"
"What did you say?" Snape asked quietly and Harry saw, with deep satisfaction, that Snape was
unnerved.
"I said, what’s in the Department of Mysteries, sir?" Harry said.
"And why," said Snape slowly, "would you ask such a thing?"
"Because" said Harry, watching Snape’s face closely, "that corridor I’ve just seen - I’ve een dreaming aout it for months -- I’ve just recognized it - it leads to the Department of Mysteries... and I think Voldemort wants something from --"
"I have told you not to say the Dark Lord’s name!"
They glared at each other. Harrys scar seared again, ut he did not care. Snape looked agitated;
ut when he spoke again he sounded as though he was trying to appear cool and unconcerned.
"There are many things in the Department of Mysteries, Potter, few of which you would
understand and none of which concern you. Do I make myself plain?"
"Yes," Harry said, still ruing his prickling scar, which was ecoming more painful.
"I want you ack here same time on Wednesday. We will continue work then."
"Fine," said Harry. He was desperate to get out of Snape’s office and find Ron and Hermione.
"You are to rid your mind of all emotion every night efore sleep; empty it, make it lank and
calm, you understand?"
"Yes," said Harry, who was arely listening.
"And e warned, Potter... I shall know if you have not practiced"
"Right," Harry mumled. He picked up his schoolag, swung it over his shoulder and hurried
towards the office door. As he opened it, he glanced ack at Snape, who had his ack to Harry
and was scooping his own thoughts out of the Pensieve with the tip of his wand and replacing
them carefully inside his own head. Harry left without another word, closing the door carefully
ehind him, his scar still throing painfully.
Harry found Ron and Hermione in the lirary, where they were working on Umridge’s most
recent ream of homework. Other students, nearly all of them fifth-years, sat at lamp-lit tales
neary, noses close to ooks, quills scratching feverishly, while the sky outside the mullioned
windows grew steadily lacker. The only other sound was the slight squeaking of one of Madam
Pince’s shoes, as the lirarian prowled the aisles menacingly, reathing down the necks of those
touching her precious ooks.
Harry felt shivery; his scar was still aching, he felt almost feverish.
When he sat down opposite Ron and Hermione, he caught sight of himself in the window
opposite; he was very white and his scar seemed to e showing up more clearly than usual.
"How did it go?" Hermione whispered, and then, looking concerned. "Are you all right, Harry?"
"Yeah... fine... I dunno," said Harry impatiently, wincing as pain shot through his scar again. "Listen... I’ve just realized something"
And he told them what he had just seen and deduced.
"So... so are you saying..." whispered Ron, as Madam Pince swept past, squeaking slightly, "that the weapon - the thing You-Know-Who’s after -- is in the Ministry of Magic?"
"In the Department of Mysteries, it’s got to e," H arry whispered. "I saw that door when your dad took me down to the courtrooms for my hearing and it’s definitely the same one he was guarding when the snake it him."
Hermione let out a long, slow sigh.
"Of course," she reathed.
"Of course what?" said Ron rather impatiently.
"Ron, think aout it... Sturgis Podmore was trying to get through a door at the Ministry of
Magic... it must have een that one, it’s too much of a coincidence!"
"How come Sturgis was trying to reak in when he’s on our side?" said Ron.
"Well, I don’t know," Hermione admitted. "That is a it odd..."
"So what’s in the Department of Mysteries?" Harry asked Ron. "Has your dad ever mentioned
anything aout it?"
"I know they call the people who work in there ‘Unspeakales’,"said Ron, frowning. "Because no one really seems to know what they do - weird place to have a weapon."
"It’s not weird at all, it makes perfect sense," said Hermione. "It will e something top secret that the Ministry has een developing, I expect... Harry, are you sure you’re all right?"
For Harry had just run oth his hands hard over his forehead as though trying to iron it.
"Yeah... fine..." he said, lowering his hands, which we re tremling. "I just feel a it... I don’t
like Occlumency much."
"I expect anyone would feel shaky if they’d had their mind attacked over and over again," said
Hermione sympathetically. "Look, let’s get ack to the common room, we’ll e a it more
comfortale there."
But the common room was packed and full of shrieks of laughter and excitement; Fred and
George were demonstrating their latest it of joke shop merchandise.
"Headless Hats!" shouted George, as Fred waved a pointed hat decorated with a fluffy pink
feather at the watching students. "Two Galleons each, watch Fred, now!"
Fred swept the hat on to his head, eaming. For a second he merely looked rather stupid; then
oth hat and head vanished.
Several girls screamed, ut everyone else was roaring with laughter.
"And off again!" shouted George, and Fred’s hand groped for a moment in what seemed to e
thin air over his shoulder; then his head reappeared as he swept the pink-feathered hat from it.
"How do those hats work, then?" said Hermione, distracted from her homework and watching
Fred and George closely. "I mean, oviously it’s some kind of Invisiility Spell, ut it’s rather
clever to have extended the field of invisiility eyond the oundaries of the charmed oject...
I’d imagine the charm wouldn’t have a very long life though."
Harry did not answer; he was feeling ill.
"I’m going to have to do this tomorrow," he muttered, pushing the ooks he had just taken out of his ag ack inside it.
"Well, write it in your homework planner then!" said Hermione encouragingly. "So you don’t
forget!"
Harry and Ron exchanged looks as he reached into his ag, withdrew the planner and opened it
tentatively.
"Don’t leave it till later, you ig second-rater!" chided the ook as Harry scriled down
Umridge’s homework. Hermione eamed at it.
"I think I’ll go to ed," said Harry, stuffing the homework planner ack into his ag and making a mental note to drop it in the fire the first opportunity he got.
He walked across the common room, dodging George, who tried to put a Headless Hat on him,
and reached the peace and cool of the stone staircase to the oys’ dormitories. He was feeling
sick again, just as he had the night he had had the vision of the snake, ut thought that if he could
just lie down for a while he would e all right.
He opened the door of his dormitory and was one step inside it when he experienced pain so
severe he thought that someone must have sliced into the top of his head. He did not know where
he was, whether he was standing or lying down, he did not even know his own name.
Maniacal laughter was ringing in his ears... he was happier than he had een in a very long
time... juilant, ecstatic, triumphant... a wonderful, wonderful thing had happened...
"Harry? HARRY!"
Someone had hit him around the face. The insane laughter was punctuated with a cry of pain.
The happiness was draining out of him, ut the laughter continued...
He opened his eyes and, as he did so, he ecame aware that the wild laughter was coming out of
his own mouth. The moment he realized this, it died away; Harry lay panting on the floor, staring
up at the ceiling, the scar on his forehead throing horrily. Ron was ending over him, looking
very worried.
"What happened?" he said.
"I... dunno..." Harry gasped, sitting up again. "He’s really happy... really happy..."
"You-Know-Who is?"
"Something good’s happened," mumled Harry. He was shaking as adly as he had done after
seeing the snake attack Mr. Weasley and felt very sick. "Something he’s een hoping for."
The words came, just as they had ack in the Gryffindor changing room, as though a stranger
was speaking them through Harry’s mouth, yet he knew they were true. He took deep reaths,
willing himself not to vomit all over Ron. He was very glad that Dean and Seamus were not here
to watch this time.
"Hermione told me to come and check on you," said Ron in a low voice, helping Harry to his
feet. "She says your Defenses will e low at the moment, after Snape’s een fiddling around with
your mind... still, I suppose it’ll help in the long run, won’t it?" He looked doutfully at Harry as
he helped him towards his ed. Harry nodded without any conviction and slumped ack on his
pillows, aching all over from having fallen to the floor so often that evening, his scar still
prickling painfully. He could not help feeling that his first foray into Occlumency had weakened
his mind’s resistance rather than strengthening it, and he wondered, with a feeling of great
trepidation, what had happened to make Lord Voldemort the happiest he had een in fourteen
years.
CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
The Beetle at Bay
Harry’s question was answered the very next morning. When Hermione’s DailyProphet arrived
she smoothed it out, gazed for a moment at the front page and gave a yelp that caused everyone
in the vicinity to stare at her.
"What?" said Harry and Ron together.
For an answer she spread the newspaper on the tale in front of them and pointed at ten lackand- white photographs that filled the whole of the front page, nine showing wizards’ faces and the tenth, a witch’s. Some of the people in the photographs were silently jeering; others were
tapping their fingers on the frame of their pictures, looking insolent. Each picture was captioned
with a name and the crime for which the person had een sent to Azkaan.
Antonin Dolohov, read the legend eneath a wizard with a long, pale, twisted face who was
sneering up at Harry, convicted of the rutal murders of Gideon and Faian Prewett.
Augustus Rookwood, said the caption eneath a pockmarked man with greasy hair who was
leaning against the edge of his picture, looking ored, convicted of leaking Ministry of Magic
secrets to He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.
But Harry’s eyes were drawn to the picture of the witch. Her face had leapt out at him the
moment he had seen the page. She had long, dark hair that looked unkempt and straggly in the
picture, though he had seen it sleek, thick and shining. She glared up at him through heavily
lidded eyes, an arrogant, disdainful smile playing around her thin mouth. Like Sirius, she
retained vestiges of great good looks, ut something - perhaps Azkaan - had taken most of her
eauty.
Bellatrix Lestrange, convicted of the torture and permanent incapacitation of Frank and Alice
Longottom.
Hermione nudged Harry and pointed at the headline over the pictures, which Harry,
concentrating on Bellatrix, had not yet read.
MASS BREAKOUT FROM AZKABAN
MINISTRY FEARS BLACK IS ‘RALLYING POINT’ FOR OLD DEATH EATERS
"Black?" said Harry loudly. "Not -?"
"Shh!" whispered Hermione desperately. "Not so loud - just read it!"
The Ministry of Magic announced late last night that there has een a mass reakout from
Azkaan.
Speaking to reporters in his private office, Cornelius Fudge, Minister for Magic, confirmed that
ten high-security prisoners escaped in the early hours of yesterday evening and that he has
already informed the Muggle Prime Minister of the dangerous nature of these individuals.
"We find ourselves, most unfortunately, in the same position we were two and a half years ago
when the murderer Sirius Black escaped," said Fudge last night. "Nor do we think the two
reakouts are unrelated. An escape of this magnitude suggests outside help, and we must
rememer that Black, as the first person ever to reak out of Azkaan, would e ideally placed to
help others follow in his footsteps. We think it likely that these individuals, who include Black’s
cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange, have rallied around Black as their leader. We are, however, doing all we can to round up the criminals, and we eg the magical community to remain alert and
cautious. On no account should any of these individuals e approached."
"There you are, Harry," said Ron, looking awestruck. "That’s why he was happy last night."
"I don’t elieve this," snarled Harry, "Fudge is laming the reakout on Sirius?"
"What other options does he have?" said Hermione itterly. "He can hardly say, ‘everyone,
Dumledore warned me this might happen, the Azkaan guards have joined Lord Voldemort’ -
stop whimpering, Ron - ‘now Voldemort’s worst supporters have roken out, too.’ I mean, he’s
spent a good six months telling everyone you and Dumledore are liars, hasn’t he?"
Hermione ripped open the newspaper and egan to read the report inside while Harry looked
around the Great Hall. He could not understand why his fellow students were not looking scared
or at least discussing the terrile piece of news on the front page, ut very few of them took the
newspaper every day like Hermione. There they all were, talking aout homework and Quidditch
and who knew what other ruish, when outside these walls ten more Death Eaters had swollen
Voldemort’s ranks.
He glanced up at the staff tale. It was a different story there: Dumledore and Professor
McGonagall were deep in conversation, oth looking extremely grave. Professor Sprout had
the Prophet propped against a ottle of ketchup and was reading the front page with such
concentration that she was not noticing the gentle drip of egg yolk falling into her lap from her
stationary spoon. Meanwhile, at the far end of the tale, Professor Umridge was tucking into a
owl of porridge. For once her pouchy toad’s eyes were not sweeping the Great Hall looking for
misehaving students. She scowled as she gulped down her food and every now and then she
shot a malevolent glance up the tale to where Dumledore and McGonagall were talking so
intently.
"Oh my -" said Hermione wonderingly, still staring at the newspaper.
"What now?" said Harry quickly; he was feeling jumpy.
"It’s... horrile," said Hermione, looking shaken. She fold ed ack page ten of the newspaper and handed it to Harry and Ron.
TRAGIC DEMISE OF MINISTRY OF MAGIC WORKER
St. Mungo’s Hospital promised a full inquiry last night after Ministry of Magic worker Broderick Bode, 49, was discovered dead in his ed, strangled y a potted-plant. Healers called to the scene were unale to revive Mr. Bode, who had een injured in a workplace accident some weeks prior to his death.
Healer Miriam Strout, who was in charge of Mr. Bodes ward at the time of the incident, has een
suspended on full pay and was unavailale for comment yesterday, ut a spokeswizard for the
hospital said in a statement:
"St. Mungo’s deeply regrets the death of Mr. Bode, whose health was improving steadily prior to
this tragic accident.
"We have strict guidelines on the decorations permitted on our wards ut it appears that Healer
Strout, usy over the Christmas period, overlooked the dangers of the plant on Mr. Bode’s
edside tale. As his speech and moility improved, Healer Strout encouraged Mr. Bode to look
after the plant himself, unaware that it was not an innocent Flitterloom, ut a cutting of Devil’s
Snare which, when touched y the convalescent Mr. Bode, throttled him instantly.
"St. Mungo’s is as yet unale to account for the presence of the plant on the ward and asks any
witch or wizard with information to come forward."
"Bode..." said Ron. "Bode. It rings a ell..."
"We saw him," Hermione whispered. "In St. Mungo’s, rememer? He was in the ed opposite
Lockhart’s, just lying there, staring at the ceiling. And we saw the Devil’s Snare arrive. She - the
Healer - said it was a Christmas present."
Harry looked ack at the story. A feeling of horror was rising like ile in his throat.
"How come we didn’t recognize Devils Snare? We’ve seen it efore... we could’ve stopped this
from happening."
"Who expects Devils Snare to turn up in a hospital disguised as a pot plant?" said Ron sharply.
"It’s not our fault, whoever sent it to the loke is to lame! They must e a real prat, why didn’t
they check what they were uying?"
"Oh, come on, Ron!" said Hermione shakily. "I don’t think anyone could put Devils Snare in a
pot and not realize it tries to kill whoever touches it? This - this was murder... a clever murder,
as well... if the plant was sent anonymously, how’s anyone ever going to find out who did it?"
Harry was not thinking aout Devil’s Snare. He was rememering taking the lift down to the
ninth level of the Ministry on the day of his hearing and the sallow-faced man who had got in on
the. Atrium level.
"I met Bode," he said slowly. "I saw him at the Ministry with your dad."
Rons mouth fell open.
"I’ve heard Dad talk aout him at home! He was an Unspeakale - he worked in the Department
of Mysteries!"
They looked at each other for a moment, then Hermione pulled the newspaper ack towards her,
closed it, glared for a moment at the pictures of the ten escaped Death Eaters on the front, then
leapt to her feet.
"Where are you going?" said Ron, startled.
"To send a letter," said Hermione, swinging her ag on to her shoulder. "It... well, I don’t know
whether... ut it’s worth trying... and I’m the only one who can."
"I hate it when she does that," grumled Ron, as he and Harry got up from the tale and made
their own, slower way out of the Great Hall. "Would it kill her to tell us what she’s up to for
once? It’d take her aout ten more seconds - hey, Hagrid!"
Hagrid was standing eside the doors into the Entrance Hall, waiting for a crowd of Ravenclaws
to pass. He was still as heavily ruised as he had een on the day he had come ack from his
mission to the giants and there was a new cut right across the ridge of his nose.
"All righ’, you two?" he said, trying to muster a smile ut managing only a kind of pained
grimace.
"Are you okay, Hagrid?" asked Harry, following him as he lumered after the Ravenclaws.
"Fine, fine," said Hagrid with a feele assumption of airiness; he waved a hand and narrowly
missed concussing a frightened-looking Professor Vector, who was passing. "Jus’ usy, yeh
know, usual stuff lessons ter prepare - couple o’ salamanders got scale rot - an’ I’m on
proation," he mumled.
"You’re on proation?" said Ron very loudly, so that many of the passing students looked around curiously. "Sorry - I mean - you’re on proation?" he whispered.
"Yeah," said Hagrid. "S’no more’n I expected, ter tell yeh the truth. Yeh migh’ not’ve picked up
on it, u’ that inspection didn’ go too well, yeh know... anyway," he sighed deeply. "Bes’ go an’
ru a it more chilli powder on them salamanders or their tails’ll e hangin’ off ‘em next. See
yeh, Harry... Ron..."
He trudged away, out of the front doors and down the stone steps into the damp grounds. Harry
watched him go, wondering how much more ad news he could stand.
The fact that Hagrid was now on proation ecame common knowledge within the school over
the next few days, ut to Harry’s indignation, hardly anyody appeared to e upset aout it;
indeed, some people, Draco Malfoy prominent among them, seemed positively gleeful. As for
the freakish death of an oscure Department of Mysteries employee in St. Mungo’s, Harry, Ron
and Hermione seemed to e the only people who knew or cared. There was only one topic of
conversation in the corridors now: the ten escaped Death Eaters, whose story had finally filtered
through the school from those few people who read the newspapers. Rumors were flying that
some of the convicts had een spotted in Hogsmeade, that they were supposed to e hiding out in
the Shrieking Shack and that they were going to reak into Hogwarts, just as Sirius Black had
once done.
Those who came from wizarding families had grown up hearing the names of these Death Eaters
spoken with almost as much fear as Voldemorts; the crimes they had committed during the days
of Voldemort’s reign of terror were legendary. There were relatives of their victims among the
Hogwarts students, who now found themselves the unwilling ojects of a gruesome sort of
reflected fame as they walked the corridors: Susan Bones, whose uncle, aunt and cousins had all
died at the hands of one of the ten, said miseraly during Herology that she now had a good
idea what it felt like to e Harry.
"And I don’t know how you stand it - it’s horrile," she said luntly, dumping far too much
dragon manure on her tray of Screechsnap seedlings, causing them to wriggle and squeak in
discomfort.
It was true that Harry was the suject of much renewed muttering and pointing in the corridors
these days, yet he thought he detected a slight difference in the tone of the whisperers’ voices.
They sounded curious rather than hostile now, and once or twice he was sure he overheard
snatches of conversation that suggested that the speakers were not satisfied with the Prophets
version of how and why ten Death Eaters had managed to reak out of the Azkaan fortress. In
their confusion and fear, these douters now seemed to e turning to the only other explanation
availale to them: the one that Harry and Dumledore had een expounding since the previous
year.
It was not only the students’ mood that had changed. It was now quite common to come across
two or three teachers conversing in low, urgent whispers in the corridors, reaking off their
conversations the moment they saw students approaching.
"They oviously can’t talk freely in the staff room any more," said Hermione in a low voice, as
she, Harry and Ron passed Professors McGonagall, Flitwick and Sprout huddled together outside
the Charms classroom one day. "Not with Umridge there."
"Reckon they know anything new?" said Ron, gazing ack over his shoulder at the three teachers.
"If they do, we’re not going to hear aout it, are we?" said Harry angrily. "Not after Decree...
what numer are we on now?" For new notices had appeared on the house noticeoards the
morning after news of the Azkaan reakout:
BY ORDER OF THE HIGH INQUISITOROF HOGWARTS
Teachers are herey anned from giving students any information that is not strictly related to the sujects they are paid to teach.
The aove is in accordance with Educational Decree Numer Twenty-six.
Signed: Dolores Jane Umridge, High Inquisitor
This latest Decree had een the suject of a great numer of jokes among the students. Lee
Jordan had pointed out to Umridge that y the terms of the new rule she was not allowed to tell
Fred and George off for playing Exploding Snap in the ack of the class.
"Exploding Snap’s got nothing to do with Defense Against the Dark Arts, Professor! That’s not
information relating to your suject!"
When Harry next saw Lee, the ack of his hand was leeding rather adly. Harry recommended
essence of Murtlap.
Harry had thought the reakout from Azkaan might have humled Umridge a little, that she
might have een aashed at the catastrophe that had occurred right under the nose of her eloved
Fudge. It seemed, however, to have only intensified her furious desire to ring every aspect of
life at Hogwarts under her personal control. She seemed determined at the very least to achieve a
sacking efore long, and the only question was whether it would e Professor Trelawney or
Hagrid who went first.
Every single Divination and Care of Magical Creatures lesson was now conducted in the
presence of Umridge and her clipoard. She lurked y the fire in the heavily perfumed tower
room, interrupting Professor Trelawney’s increasingly hysterical talks with difficult questions
aout ornithomancy and heptomology, insisting that she predicted students’ answers efore they
gave them and demanding that she demonstrate her skill at the crystal all, the tea leaves and the
rune stones in turn. Harry thought Professor Trelawney might soon crack under the strain.
Several times he passed her in the corridors - in itself a very unusual occurrence as she generally
remained in her tower room - muttering wildly to herself, wringing her hands and shooting
terrified glances over her shoulder, and all the while giving off a powerful smell of cooking
sherry. If he had not een so worried aout Hagrid, he would have felt sorry for her - ut if one
of them was to e ousted from their jo, there could e only one choice for Harry as to who
should remain.
Unfortunately, Harry could not see that Hagrid was putting up a etter show than Trelawney.
Though he seemed to e following Hermione’s advice and had shown them nothing more
frightening than a Crup -- a creature indistinguishale from a Jack Russell terrier except for its
forked tail - since efore Christmas, he too seemed to have lost his nerve. He was oddly
distracted and jumpy during lessons, losing the thread of what he was saying to the class,
answering questions wrongly, and all the time glancing anxiously at Umridge. He was also
more distant with Harry, Ron and Hermione than he had ever een efore, and had expressly
foridden them to visit him after dark.
"If she catches yeh, it’ll e all of our necks on the line," he told them flatly, and with no desire to do anything that might jeoparize his jo further they astained from walking down to his hut in the evenings.
It seemed to Harry that Umridge was steadily depriving him of everything that made his life at
Hogwarts worth living: visits to Hagrid’s house, letters from Sirius, his Fireolt and Quidditch.
He took his revenge the only way he could - y redouling his efforts for the D.A..
Harry was pleased to see that all of them, even Zacharias Smith, had een spurred on to work
harder than ever y the news that ten more Death Eaters were now on the loose, ut in noody
was this improvement more pronounced than in Neville. The news of his parents’ attackers’
escape had wrought a strange and even slightly alarming change in him. He had not once
mentioned his meeting with Harry, Ron and Hermione on the closed ward in St. Mungo’s and,
taking their lead from him, they had kept quiet aout it too. Nor had he said anything on the
suject of Bellatrix and her fellow torturers’ escape. In fact, Neville arely spoke during the D.A.
meetings any more, ut worked relentlessly on every new jinx and counter-curse Harry taught
them, his plump face screwed up in concentration, apparently indifferent to injuries or accidents
and working harder than anyone else in the room. He was improving so fast it was quite
unnerving and when Harry taught them the Shield Charm - a means of deflecting minor jinxes so
that they reounded upon the attacker - only Hermione mastered the charm faster than Neville.
Harry would have given a great deal to e making as much progress at Occlumency as Neville
was making during the D.A. meetings. Harry’s sessions with Snape, which had started adly
enough, were not improving. On the contrary Harry felt he was getting worse with every lesson.
Before he had started studying Occlumency, his scar had prickled occasionally, usually during
the night, or else following one of those strange flashes of Voldemort’s thoughts or mood that he
experienced every now and then. Nowadays, however, his scar hardly ever stopped prickling,
and he often felt lurches of annoyance or cheerfulness that were unrelated to what was happening
to him at the time, which were always accompanied y a particularly painful twinge from his
scar. He had the horrile impression that he was slowly turning into a kind of aerial that was
tuned in to tiny fluctuations in Voldemorts mood, and he was sure he could date this increased
sensitivity firmly from his first Occlumency lesson with Snape. What was more, he was now
dreaming aout walking down the corridor towards the entrance to the Department of Mysteries
almost every night, dreams which always culminated in him standing longingly in front of the
plain lack door.
"Maye it’s a it like an illness," said Hermione, looking concerned when Harry confided in her
and Ron. "A fever or something. It has to get worse efore it gets etter."
"The lessons with Snape are making it worse," said Harry flatly. "I’m getting sick of my scar
hurting and I’m getting ored with walking down that corridor every night." He rued his
forehead angrily. "I just wish the door would open, I’m sick of standing staring at it -"
"That’s not funny," said Hermione sharply. "Dumledore doesn’t want you to have dreams aout
that corridor at all, or he wouldn’t have asked Snape to teach you Occlumency. You’re just going
to have to work a it harder in your lessons."
"I am working!" said Harry nettled. "You try it some time - Snape trying to get inside your head - it’s not a undle of laughs, you know!"
"Maye..." said Ron slowly.
"Maye what?" said Hermione, rather snappishly.
"Maye it’s not Harry’s fault he can’t close his mind," said Ron darkly.
"What do you mean?" said Hermione.
"Well, maye Snape isn’t really trying to help Harry..."
Harry and Hermione stared at him. Ron looked darkly and meaningfully from one to the other.
"Maye," he said again, in a lower voice, "he’s actually trying to open Harry’s mind a it wider... make it easier for You-Know --"
"Shut up, Ron," said Hermione angrily. "How many times have you suspected Snape, and when
have you ever een right? Dumledore trusts him, he works for the Order, that ought to e
enough."
"He used to e a Death Eater," said Ron stuornly. "And we’ve never seen proof that he really
swapped sides."
"Dumledore trusts him," Hermione repeated. "And if we can’t trust Dumledore, we can’t trust
anyone."
With so much to worry aout and so much to do - startling amounts of homework that frequently
kept the fifth-years working until past midnight, secret D.A. sessions and regular classes with
Snape - January seemed to e passing alarmingly fast. Before Harry knew it, Feruary had
arrived, ringing with it wetter and warmer weather and the prospect of the second Hogsmeade
visit of the year. Harry had had very little time to spare for conversations with Cho since they
had agreed to visit the village together, ut suddenly found himself facing a Valentine’s Day
spent entirely in her company.
On the morning of the fourteenth he dressed particularly carefully. He and Ron arrived at
reakfast just in time for the arrival of the post owls. Hedwig was not there - not that Harry had
expected her - ut Hermione was tugging a letter from the eak of an unfamiliar rown owl as
they sat down.
"And aout time! If it hadn’t come today..." she said, eagerly tearing open the envelope and
pulling out a small piece of parchment. Her eyes sped from left to right as she read through the
message and a grimly pleased expression spread across her face.
"Listen, Harry," she said, looking up at him, "this is really important. Do you think you could
meet me in the Three Broomsticks around midday?"
"Well... I dunno," said Harry uncertainly. "Cho might e expecting me to spend the whole day
with her. We never said what we were going to do."
"Well, ring her along if you must," said Hermione urgently. "But will you come?"
"Well... all right, ut why?"
"I haven’t got time to tell you now, I’ve got to answer this quickly."
And she hurried out of the Great Hall, the letter clutched in one hand and a piece of toast in the
other.
"Are you coming?" Harry asked Ron, ut he shook his head, looking glum.
"I can’t come into Hogsmeade at all; Angelina wants a full day’s training. Like it’s going to help;
we’re the worst team I’ve ever seen. You should see Sloper and Kirke, they’re pathetic, even
worse than I am." He heaved a great sigh. "I dunno why Angelina won’t just let me resign."
"It’s ecause you’re good when you’re on form, that’s why," said Harry irritaly.
He found it very hard to e sympathetic to Ron’s plight, when he himself would have given
almost anything to e playing in the forthcoming match against Hufflepuff. Ron seemed to have
noticed Harrys tone, ecause he did not mention Quidditch again during reakfast, and there was
a slight frostiness in the way they said goodye to each other shortly afterwards. Ron departed
for the Quidditch pitch and Harry, after attempting to flatten his hair while staring at his
reflection in the ack of a teaspoon, proceeded alone to the Entrance Hall to meet Cho, feeling
very apprehensive and wondering what on earth they were going to talk aout.
She was waiting for him a little to the side of the oak front doors, looking very pretty with her
hair tied ack in a long pony-tail. Harry’s feet seemed to e too ig for his ody as he walked
towards her and he was suddenly horrily aware of his arms and how stupid they must look
swinging at his sides.
"Hi," said Cho slightly reathlessly.
"Hi," said Harry.
They stared at each other for a moment, then Harry said, "Well - er -- shall we go, then?"
"Oh - yes..."
They joined the queue of people eing signed out y Filch, occasionally catching each other’s
eye and grinning shiftily, ut not talking to each other. Harry was relieved when they reached the
fresh air, finding it easier to walk along in silence than just stand aout looking awkward. It was
a fresh, reezy sort of a day and as they passed the Quidditch stadium Harry glimpsed Ron and
Ginny skimming along over the stands and felt a horrile pang that he was not up there with
them.
"You really miss it, don’t you?" said Cho.
He looked round and saw her watching him.
"Yeah," sighed Harry. "I do."
"Rememer the first time we played against each other, in the third year?" she asked him.
"Yeah," said Harry, grinning. "You kept locking me."
"And Wood told you not to e a gentleman and knock me off my room if you had to," said Cho,
smiling reminiscently. "I heard he got taken on y Pride of Portree, is that right?"
"Nah, it was Puddlemere United; I saw him at the World Cup last year."
"Oh, I saw you there, too, rememer? We were on the same campsite. It was really good, wasn’t
it?"
The suject of the Quidditch World Cup carried them all the way down the drive and out through
the gates. Harry could hardly elieve how easy it was to talk to her - no more difficult, in fact,
than talking to Ron and Hermione - and he was just starting to feel confident and cheerful when a
large gang of Slytherin girls passed them, including Pansy Parkinson.
"Potter and Chang!" screeched Pansy, to a chorus of snide giggles. "Urgh, Chang, I don’t think
much of your taste... at least Diggory was good-looking!"
The girls sped up, talking and shrieking in a pointed fashion with many exaggerated glances ack
at Harry and Cho, leaving an emarrassed silence in their wake. Harry could think of nothing
else to say aout Quidditch, and Cho, slightly flushed, was watching her feet.
"So... where d’you want to go?" Harry asked as they entered Hogsmeade. The High Street was
full of students amling up and down, peering into the shop windows and messing aout together
on the pavements.
"Oh... I don’t mind," said Cho, shrugging. "Urn... shall we just have a look in the shops or
something?"
They wandered towards Dervish and Banges. A large poster had een stuck up in the window
and a few Hogsmeaders were looking at it. They moved aside when Harry and Cho approached
and Harry found himself staring once more at the pictures of the ten escaped Death Eaters. The
poster, By Order of the Ministry of Magic, offered a thousand-Galleon reward to any witch or
wizard with information leading to the recapture of any of the convicts pictured.
"It’s funny, isn’t it," said Cho in a low voice, gazing up at the pictures of the Death Eaters,
"rememer when that Sirius Black escaped, and there were Dementors all over Hogsmeade
looking for him? And now ten Death Eaters are on the loose and there are no Dementors
anywhere..."
"Yeah," said Harry, tearing his eyes away from Bellatrix Lestrange’s face to glance up and down
the High Street. "Yeah, that is weird."
He wasn’t sorry that there were no Dementors neary, ut now he came to think of it, their
asence was highly significant. They had not only let the Death Eaters escape, they weren’t
othering to look for them... it looked as though they really were outside Ministry control now.
The ten escaped Death Eaters were staring out of every shop window he and Cho passed. It
started to rain as they passed Scrivenshaft’s; cold, heavy drops of water kept hitting Harry’s face
and the ack of his neck.
"Um... d’you want to get a coffee?" said Cho tentatively, as the rain egan to fall more heavily.
"Yeah, all right," said Harry, looking around. "Where?"
"Oh, there’s a really nice place just up here; haven’t you ever een to Madam Puddifoot’s?" she
said rightly, leading him up a side road and into a small teashop that Harry had never noticed
efore. It was a cramped, steamy little place where everything seemed to have een decorated
with frills or ows. Harry was reminded unpleasantly of Umridge’s office.
"Cute, isn’t it?" said Cho happily.
"Er... yeah," said Harry untruthfully.
"Look, she’s decorated it for Valentine’s Day!" said Cho, indicating a numer of golden cherus
that were hovering over each of the small, circular tales, occasionally throwing pink confetti
over the occupants.
"Aaah..."
They sat down at the last remaining tale, which was over y the steamy window. Roger Davies,
the Ravenclaw Quidditch Captain was sitting aout a foot and a half away with a pretty londe
girl. They were holding hands. The sight made Harry feel uncomfortale, particularly when,
looking around the teashop, he saw that it was full of nothing ut couples, all of them holding
hands. Perhaps Cho would expect him to hold her hand.
"What can I get you, m’dears?" said Madam Puddifoot, a very stout woman with a shiny lack
un, squeezing etween their tale and Roger Davies’s with great difficulty.
"Two coffees, please," said Cho.
In the time it took for their coffees to arrive, Roger Davies and his girlfriend had started kissing
over their sugar owl. Harry wished they wouldn’t; he felt that Davies was setting a standard
with which Cho would soon expect him to compete. He felt his face growing hot and tried
staring out of the window, ut it was so steamed up he couldn’t see the street outside. To
postpone the moment when he would have to look at Cho, he stared up at the ceiling as though
examining the paintwork and received a handful of confetti in the face from their hovering
cheru.
After a few more painful minutes, Cho mentioned Umridge. Harry seized on the suject with
relief and they passed a few happy moments ausing her, ut the suject had already een so
thoroughly canvassed during D.A. meetings it did not last very long. Silence fell again. Harry wasvery conscious of the slurping noises coming from the tale next door and cast wildly around forsomething else to say.
"Er... listen, d’you want to come with me to the Three Broomsticks at lunchtime? I’m meeting
Hermione Granger there."
Cho raised her eyerows.
"You’re meeting Hermione Granger? Today?"
"Yeah. Well, she asked me to, so I thought I would. D’you want to come with me? She said it
wouldn’t matter if you did."
"Oh... well... that was nice of her."
But Cho did not sound as though she thought it was nice at all. On the contrary, her tone was
cold and all of a sudden she looked rather foridding.
A few more minutes passed in total silence, Harry drinking his coffee so fast that he would soon
need a fresh cup. Beside them, Roger Davies and his girlfriend seemed glued together at the lips.
Cho’s hand was lying on the tale eside her coffee and Harry was feeling a mounting pressure
to take hold of it. Just do it, he told himself, as a fount of mingled panic and excitement surged
up inside his chest, just reach out and gra it. Amazing, how much more difficult it was to extend
his arm twelve inches and touch her hand than it was to snatch a speeding Snitch from midair...
But just as he moved his hand forwards, Cho took hers off the tale. She was now watching
Roger Davies kissing his girlfriend with a mildly interested expression.
"He asked me out, you know," she said in a quiet voice. "A couple of weeks ago. Roger. I turned
him down, though."
Harry, who had graed the sugar owl to excuse his sudden lunging movement across the tale,
could not think why she was telling him this. If she wished she were sitting at the next tale
eing heartily kissed y Roger Davies, why had she agreed to come out with him?
He said nothing. Their cheru threw another handful of confetti over them; some of it landed in
the last cold dregs of coffee Harry had een aout to drink.
"I came in here with Cedric last year," said Cho.
In the second or so it took for him to take in what she had said, Harry’s insides had ecome
glacial. He could not elieve she wanted to talk aout Cedric now, while kissing couples
surrounded them and a cheru floated over their heads.
Cho’s voice was rather higher when she spoke again.
"I’ve een meaning to ask you for ages... did Cedric - did he - m - m - mention me at all efore
he died?"
This was the very last suject on earth Harry wanted to discuss, and least of all with Cho.
"Well - no -" he said quietly. "There - there wasn’t time for him to say anything. Erm... so...
d’you... d’you get to see a lot of Quidditch in the holidays? You support the Tornados, right?"
His voice sounded falsely right and cheery. To his horror, he saw that her eyes were swimming
with tears again, just as they had een after the last D.A. meeting efore Christmas.
"Look," he said desperately, leaning in so that no ody else could overhear, "let’s not talk aout
Cedric right now... let’s talk aout something else."
But this, apparently, was quite the wrong thing to say.
"I thought," she said, tears spattering down on to the tale, "I thought you’d u - u - understand!
I need to talk aout it! Surely you n - need to talk aout it t - too! I mean, you saw it happen, d -
didn’t you?"
Everything was going nightmarishly wrong; Roger Davies’s girlfriend had even unglued herself
to look round at Cho crying.
"Well - I have talked aout it," Harry said in a whisper, "to Ron and Hermione, ut -"
"Oh, you’ll talk to Hermione Granger!" she said shrilly, her face now shining with tears. Several
more kissing couples roke apart to stare. "But you won’t talk to me! P - perhaps it would e est if we just... just p - paid and you went and met up with Hermione G - Granger, like you
oviously want to!"
Harry stared at her, utterly ewildered, as she seized a frilly napkin and daed at her shining
face with it.
"Cho?" he said weakly, wishing Roger would seize his girlfriend and start kissing her again to
stop her goggling at him and Cho.
"Go on, leave!" she said, now crying into the napkin. "I don’t know why you asked me out in the
first place if you’re going to make arrangements to meet other girls right after me... how many
are you meeting after Hermione?"
"It’s not like that!" said Harry, and he was so relieved at finally understanding what she was
annoyed aout that he laughed, which he realized a split second too late was also a mistake.
Cho sprang to her feet. The whole tearoom was quiet and everyody was watching them now.
"I’ll see you around, Harry" she said dramatically, and hiccoughing slightly she dashed to the
door, wrenched it open and hurried off into the pouring rain.
"Cho!" Harry called after her, ut the door had already swung shut ehind her with a tuneful
tinkle.
There was total silence within the teashop. Every eye was on Harry. He threw a Galleon down on
to the tale, shook pink confetti out of his hair, and followed Cho out of the door.
It was raining hard now and she was nowhere to e seen. He simply did not understand what had
happened; half an hour ago they had een getting along fine.
"Women!" he muttered angrily, sloshing down the rain-washed street with his hands in his
pockets. "What did she want to talk aout Cedric for, anyway? Why does she always want to
drag up a suject that makes her act like a human hosepipe?"
He turned right and roke into a splashy run, and within minutes he was turning into the doorway
of the Three Broomsticks. He knew he was too early to meet Hermione, ut he thought it likely
there would e someone in here with whom he could spend the intervening time. He shook his
wet hair out of his eyes and looked around. Hagrid was sitting alone in a corner, looking morose.
"Hi, Hagrid!" he said, when he had squeezed through the crammed tales and pulled up a chair
eside him.
Hagrid jumped and looked down at Harry as though he arely recognized him. Harry saw that he
had two fresh cuts on his face and several new ruises.
"Oh, it’s yeh, Harry," said Hagrid. "Yeh all right?"
"Yeah, I’m fine," lied Harry; ut, next to this attered and mournful-looking Hagrid, he felt he
didn’t really have much to complain aout. "Er - are you okay?"
"Me?" said Hagrid. "Oh yeah, I’m grand, Harry, grand."
He gazed into the depths of his pewter tankard, which was the size of a large ucket, and sighed.
Harry didn’t know what to say to him. They sat side y side in silence for a moment. Then
Hagrid said aruptly, "In the same oat, yeh an’ me, aren’ we, ‘Arry?"
"Er -" said Harry.
"Yeah... I’ve said it efore... oth outsiders, like," said Hagrid, nodding wisely. "An’ oth
orphans. Yeah... oth orphans."
He took a great swig from his tankard.
"Makes a diff’rence, havin’ a decent family," he said. "Me dad was decent. An’ your mum an’
dad were decent. If they’d lived, life woulda in diff’rent, eh?"
"Yeah... I s’pose," said Harry cautiously. Hagrid seemed to e in a very strange mood.
"Family," said Hagrid gloomily. "Whatever yeh say, lood’s important..."
And he wiped a trickle of it out of his eye.
"Hagrid," said Harry, unale to stop himself, "where are you getting all these injuries?"
"Eh?" said Hagrid, looking startled. "Wha’ injuries?"
"All those!" said Harry, pointing at Hagrid’s face.
"Oh... tha’s jus’ normal umps an’ ruises, Harry," said Hagrid dismissively, "I got a rough jo."
He drained his tankard, set it ack on the tale and got to his feet.
"I’ll e seein’ yeh, Harry... take care now."
And he lumered out of the pu looking wretched, and disappeared into the torrential rain. Harry
watched him go, feeling miserale. Hagrid was unhappy and he was hiding something, ut he
seemed determined not to accept help. What was going on? But efore Harry could think aout it
any further, he heard a voice calling his name.
"Harry! Harry, over here!"
Hermione was waving at him from the other side of the room. He got up and made his way
towards her through the crowded pu. He was still a few tales away when he realized that
Hermione was not alone. She was sitting at a tale with the unlikeliest pair of drinking mates he
could ever have imagined: Luna Lovegood and none other than Rita Skeeter, ex-journalist on
the Daily Prophet and one of Hermione’s least favorite people in the world.
"You’re early!" said Hermione, moving along to give him room to sit down. "I thought you were
with Cho, I wasn’t expecting you for another hour at least!"
"Cho?" said Rita at once, twisting round in her seat to stare avidly at Harry. "A girl?"
She snatched up her crocodile-skin handag and groped within it.
"It’s none of your usiness if Harry’s een with a h undred girls," Hermione told Rita coolly. "So you can put that away right now."
Rita had een on the point of withdrawing an acid-green quill from her ag. Looking as though
she had een forced to swallow Stinksap, she snapped her ag shut again.
"What are you up to?" Harry asked, sitting down and staring from Rita to Luna to Hermione.
"Little Miss Perfect was just aout to tell me when you arrived," said Rita, taking a large slurp of
her drink. "I suppose I’m allowed to talk to him, am I?" she shot at Hermione.
"Yes, I suppose you are," said Hermione coldly.
Unemployment did not suit Rita. The hair that had once een set in elaorate curls now hung
lank and unkempt around her face. The scarlet paint on her two-inch talons was chipped and
there were a couple of false jewels missing from her winged glasses. She took another great gulp
of her drink and said out of the corner of her mouth, "Pretty girl, is she, Harry?"
"One more word aout Harry’s love life and the deal’s off and that’s a promise," said Hermione
irritaly.
"What deal?" said Rita, wiping her mouth on the ack of her hand. "You haven’t mentioned a
deal yet, Miss Prissy, you just told me to turn up. Oh, one of these days..." She took a deep
shuddering reath.
"Yes, yes, one of these days you’ll write more horrile stories aout Harry and me," said
Hermione indifferently. "Find someone who cares, why don’t you?"
"They’ve run plenty of horrile stories aout Harry this year without my help," said Rita,
shooting a sideways look at him over the top of her glass and adding in a rough whisper, "How
has that made you feel, Harry? Betrayed? Distraught? Misunderstood?"
"He feels angry, of course," said Hermione in a hard, clear voice. "Because he’s told the Minister
for Magic the truth and the Minister’s too much of an idiot to elieve him."
"So you actually stick to it, do you, that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is ack?" said Rita,
lowering her glass and sujecting Harry to a piercing stare while her finger strayed longingly to
the clasp of the crocodile ag. "You stand y all this garage Dumledore’s een telling
everyody aout You-Know-Who returning and you eing the sole witness?"
"I wasn’t the sole witness," snarled Harry. "There were a dozen-odd Death Eaters there as well.
Want their names?"
"I’d love them," reathed Rita, now fumling in her ag once more and gazing at him as though
he was the most eautiful thing she had ever seen. "A great old headline: ‘PotterAccuses... ’ A
su-heading, ‘Harry Potter Names Death Eaters Still Among Us’. And then, eneath a nice ig
photograph of you, ‘Distured teenage survivor of You-Know-Who’sattack, Harry Potter, 15,
caused outrage yesterday y accusing respectale and prominent memers of the wizarding
community of eing Death Eaters... ’"
The Quick-Quotes Quill was actually in her hand and halfway to her mouth when the rapturous
expression on her face died.
"But of course," she said, lowering the quill and looking daggers at Hermione, "Little Miss
Perfect wouldn’t want that story out there, would she?"
"As a matter of fact," said Hermione sweetly, "that’s exactly what Little Miss Perfect does want."
Rita stared at her. So did Harry. Luna, on the other hand, sang Weasley is our King dreamily
under her reath and stirred her drink with a cocktail onion on a stick.
"You want me to report what he says aout He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?"Rita asked Hermione in a hushed voice.
"Yes, I do," said Hermione. "The true story. All the facts. Exactly as Harry reports them. He’ll
give you all the details, he’ll tell you the names of the undiscovered Death Eaters he saw there,
he’ll tell you what Voldemort looks like now - oh, get a grip on yourself," she added
contemptuously, throwing a napkin across the tale, for, at the sound of Voldemort’s name, Rita
had jumped so adly she had slopped half her glass of Firewhisky down herself.
Rita lotted the front of her gruy raincoat, still staring at Hermione. Then she said aldly,
"The Prophet wouldn’t print it. In case you haven’t noticed, noody elieves his cock-and-ull
story. Everyone thinks he’s delusional. Now, if you let me write the story from that angle -"
"We don’t need another story aout how Harry’s lost his marles!" said Hermione angrily.
"We’ve had plenty of those already, thank you! I want him given the opportunity to tell the truth!"
"There’s no market for a story like that," said Rita coldly.
"You mean the Prophet won’t print it ecause Fudge won’t let them," said Hermione irritaly.
Rita gave Hermione a long, hard look. Then, leaning forwards across the tale towards her, she
said in a usinesslike tone, "All right, Fudge is leaning on the Prophet, ut it comes to the same
thing. They won’t print a story that shows Harry in a good light. Noody wants to read it. It’s
against the pulic mood. This last Azkaan reakout has got people quite worried enough.
People just don’t want to elieve You-Know-Whos ack."
"So the Daily Prophet exists to tell people what they want to hear, does it?" said Hermione
scathingly.
Rita sat up straight again, her eyerows raised, and drained her glass of Firewhisky.
"The Prophet exists to sell itself, you silly girl," she said coldly.
"My dad thinks it’s an awful paper," said Luna, chipping into the conversation unexpectedly.
Sucking on her cocktail onion, she gazed at Rita with her enormous, protuerant, slightly mad
eyes. "He pulishes important stories he thinks the pulic needs to know. He doesn’t care aout
making money."
Rita looked disparagingly at Luna.
"I’m guessing your father runs some stupid little village newsletter?" she said. "Proaly, Twenty- Five Ways to Mingle With Muggles and the dates of the next Bring and Fly Sale?"
"No," said Luna, dipping her onion ack into her Gillywater, "he’s the editor of The Quiler."
Rita snorted so loudly that people at a neary tale looked round in alarm.
"‘Important stories he thinks the pulic needs to know’, eh? " she said witheringly. "I could manure my garden with the contents of that rag."
"Well, this is your chance to raise the tone of it a it, isn’t it?" said Hermione pleasantly. "Luna
says her father’s quite happy to take Harry’s interview. That’s who’ll e pulishing it."
Rita stared at them oth for a moment, then let out a great whoop of laughter.
"The Quiler!" she said, cackling. "You think people will take him seriously if he’s pulished
in The Quiler!"
"Some people won’t," said Hermione in a level voice. "But the Daily Prophet’s version of the
Azkaan reakout had some gaping holes in it. I think a lot of people will e wondering whether
there isn’t a etter explanation of what happened, and if there’s an alternative story availale,
even if it is pulished in a -" she glanced sideways at Luna, "in a - well, an unusual magazine - I
think they might e rather keen to read it."
Rita didn’t say anything for a while, ut eyed Hermione shrewdly, her head a little to one side.
"All right, let’s say for a moment I’ll do it," she said aruptly. "What kind of fee am I going to
get?"
"I don’t think Daddy exactly pays people to write f or the magazine," said Luna dreamily. "They
do it ecause it’s an honor and, of course, to see their names in print."
Rita Skeeter looked as though the taste of Stinksap was strong in her mouth again as she rounded
on Hermione.
"I’m supposed to do this for free?"
"Well, yes," said Hermione calmly, taking a sip of her drink. "Otherwise, as you very well know,
I will inform the authorities that you are an unregistered Animagus. Of course, the Prophet might
give you rather a lot for an insider’s account of life in Azkaan."
Rita looked as though she would have liked nothing etter than to seize the paper umrella
sticking out of Hermione’s drink and thrust it up her nose.
"I don’t suppose I’ve got any choice, have I?" said Rita, her voice shaking slightly. She opened
her crocodile ag once more, withdrew a piece of parchment, and raised her Quick-Quotes Quill.
"Daddy will e pleased," said Luna rightly. A muscle twitched in Rita’s jaw.
"Okay, Harry?" said Hermione, turning to him. "Ready to tell the pulic the truth?"
"I suppose," said Harry, watching Rita alancing the Quick-Quotes Quill at the ready on the
parchment etween them.
"Fire away, then, Rita," said Hermione serenely, fishing a cherry out from the ottom of her
glass.
CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
Seen and Unforeseen
Luna said vaguely that she did not know how soon Rita’s interview with Harry would appear
in The Quiler, that her father was expecting a "‘lovely long article on recent sightings of
Crumple-Horned Snorkacks,’"- "and of course, that’ll e a very important story, so Harrys might
have to wait for the following issue," said Luna.
Harry had not found it an easy experience to talk aout the night when Voldemort had returned.
Rita had pressed him for every little detail and he had given her everything he could rememer,
knowing that this was his one ig opportunity to tell the world the truth. He wondered how
people would react to the story. He guessed that it would confirm a lot of people in the view that
he was completely insane, not least ecause his story would e appearing alongside utter ruish
aout Crumple-Horned Snorkacks. But the reakout of Bellatrix Lestrange and her fellow Death
Eaters had given Harry a urning desire to dosomething, whether or not it worked...
"Can’t wait to see what Umridge thinks of you going pulic," said Dean, sounding awestruck at
dinner on Monday night. Seamus was shoveling down large amounts of chicken and ham pie on
Dean’s other side, ut Harry knew he was listening.
"It’s the right thing to do, Harry," said Neville, who was sitting opposite him. He was rather pale, ut went on in a low voice, "It must have een... tough... talking aout it... was it?"
"Yeah," mumled Harry, "ut people have got to know what Voldemorts capale of, haven’t
they?"
"That’s right," said Neville, nodding, "and his Death Eaters, too... people should know..."
Neville left his sentence hanging and returned to his aked potato. Seamus looked up, ut when
he caught Harrys eye he looked quickly ack at his plate again. After a while, Dean, Seamus and
Neville departed for the common room, leaving Harry and Hermione at the tale waiting for
Ron, who had not yet had dinner ecause of Quidditch practice.
Cho Chang walked into the Hall with her friend Marietta. Harry’s stomach gave an unpleasant
lurch, ut she did not look over at the Gryffindor tale, and sat down with her ack to him.
"Oh, I forgot to ask you," said Hermione rightly, glancing over at the Ravenclaw tale, "what
happened on your date with Cho? How come you were ack so early?"
"Er... well, it was..." said Harry, pulling a dish of rhuar crumle towards him and helping
himself to seconds, "a complete fiasco, now you mention it."
And he told her what had happened in Madam Puddifoot’s teashop.
"... so then," he finished several minutes later, as the final it of crumle disappeared, "she jumps up, right, and says, ‘I’ll see you around, Harry,’ an d runs out of the place!" He put down his spoon and looked at Hermione. "I mean, what was all that aout? What was going on?"
Hermione glanced over at the ack of Cho’s head and sighed.
"Oh, Harry" she said sadly. "Well, I’m sorry, ut you were a it tactless."
"Me, tactless?" said Harry, outraged. "One minute we were getting on fine, next minute she was
telling me that Roger Davies asked her out and how she used to go and snog Cedric in that stupid
teashop - how was I supposed to feel aout that?"
"Well, you see," said Hermione, with the patient air of someone explaining that one plus one
equals two to an over-emotional toddler, "you shouldn’t have told her that you wanted to meet
me halfway through your date."
"But, ut," spluttered Harry, "ut - you told me to meet you at twelve and to ring her along, how was I supposed to do that without telling her?"
"You should have told her differently," said Hermione, still with that maddeningly patient air.
"You should have said it was really annoying, ut I’d made you promise to come along to the
Three Broomsticks, and you really didn’t want to go, you’d much rather spend the whole day
with her, ut unfortunately you thought you really ought to meet me and would she please,
please come along with you and hopefully you’d e ale to get away more quickly. And it might
have een a good idea to mention how ugly you think I am, too," Hermione added as an
afterthought.
"But I don’t think you’re ugly," said Harry, emused.
Hermione laughed.
"Harry you’re worse than Ron... well, no, you’re not, " she sighed, as Ron himself came
stumping into the Hall splattered with mud and looking grumpy. "Look - you upset Cho when
you said you were going to meet me, so she tried to make you jealous. It was her way of trying to
find out how much you liked her."
"Is that what she was doing?" said Harry, as Ron dropped on to the ench opposite them and
pulled every dish within reach towards him. "Well, wouldn’t it have een easier if she’d just
asked me whether I liked her etter than you?"
"Girls don’t often ask questions like that," said Hermione.
"Well, they should!" said Harry forcefully. "Then I could’ve just told her I fancy her, and she
wouldn’t have had to get herself all worked up again aout Cedric dying!"
"I’m not saying what she did was sensile," said Hermione, as Ginny joined them, just as muddy as Ron and looking equally disgruntled. "I’m just trying to make you see how she was feeling at the time."
"You should write a ook," Ron told Hermione as he cut up his potatoes, "translating mad things
girls do so oys can understand them."
"Yeah," said Harry fervently, looking over at the Ravenclaw tale. Cho had just got up, and, still
not looking at him, she left the Great Hall. Feeling rather depressed, he looked ack at Ron and
Ginny. "So, how was Quidditch practice?"
"It was a nightmare," said Ron in a surly voice.
"Oh come on," said Hermione, looking at Ginny, "I’m sure it wasn’t that -"
"Yes, it was," said Ginny. "It was appalling. Angelina was nearly in tears y the end of it."
Ron and Ginny went off for aths after dinner; Harry and Hermione returned to the usy
Gryffindor common room and their usual pile of homework. Harry had een struggling with a
new star-chart for Astronomy for half an hour when Fred and George turned up.
"Ron and Ginny not here?" asked Fred, looking around as he pulled up a chair, and when Harry
shook his head, he said, "Good. We were watching their practice. They’re going to e
slaughtered. They’re complete ruish without us."
"Come on, Ginny’s not ad," said George fairly, sitting down next to Fred. "Actually, I dunno
how she got so good, seeing how we never let her play with us."
"She’s een reaking into your room shed in the garden since the age of six and taking each of
your rooms out in turn when you weren’t looking," said Hermione from ehind her tottering
pile of Ancient Rune ooks.
"Oh," said George, looking mildly impressed. "Well - that’d explain it."
"Has Ron saved a goal yet?" asked Hermione, peering over the top of Magical Hieroglyphs and
Logograms.
"Well, he can do it if he doesn’t think anyone’s watching him," said Fred, rolling his eyes. "So all we have to do is ask the crowd to turn their acks and talk among themselves every time the
Quaffle goes up his end on Saturday."
He got up again and moved restlessly to the window, staring out across the dark grounds.
"You know, Quidditch was aout the only thing in this place worth staying for."
Hermione cast him a stern look.
"You’ve got exams coming!"
"Told you already, we’re not fussed aout NEWTs," said Fred. "The Snackoxes are ready to
roll, we found out how to get rid of those oils, just a couple of drops of Murtlap essence sorts
them, Lee put us on to it."
George yawned widely and looked out disconsolately at the cloudy night sky.
"I dunno if I even want to watch this match. If Zacharias Smith eats us I might have to kill
myself."
"Kill him, more like," said Fred firmly.
"That’s the troule with Quidditch," said Hermione asent-mindedly, once again ent over her
Runes translation, "it creates all this ad feeling and tension etween the houses."
She looked up to find her copy of Spellman’s Syllaary, and caught Fred, George and Harry all
staring at her with expressions of mingled disgust and incredulity on their faces.
"Well, it does!" she said impatiently. "It’s only a game, isn’t it?"
"Hermione," said Harry, shaking his head, "you’re good on feelings and stuff, ut you just don’t
understand aout Quidditch."
"Maye not," she said darkly, returning to her translation, "ut at least my happiness doesn’t
depend on Ron’s goalkeeping aility."
And though Harry would rather have jumped off the Astronomy Tower than admit it to her, y
the time he had watched the game the following Saturday he would have given any numer of
Galleons not to care aout Quidditch either.
The very est thing you could say aout the match was that it was short; the Gryffindor
spectators had to endure only twenty-two minutes of agony. It was hard to say what the worst
thing was: Harry thought it was a close-run contest etween Ron’s fourteenth failed save, Sloper
missing the Bludger ut hitting Angelina in the mouth with his at, and Kirke shrieking and
falling ackwards off his room when Zacharias Smith zoomed at him carrying the Quaffle. The
miracle was that Gryffindor only lost y ten points: Ginny managed to snatch the Snitch from
right under Hufflepuff Seeker Summery’s nose, so that the final score was two hundred and
forty versus two hundred and thirty.
"Good catch," Harry told Ginny ack in the common room, where the atmosphere resemled that
of a particularly dismal funeral.
"I was lucky," she shrugged. "It wasn’t a very fast Snitch and Summery’s got a cold, he sneezed and closed his eyes at exactly the wrong moment. Anyway, once you’re ack on the team -"
"Ginny, I’ve got a lifelong an."
"You’re anned as long as Umridge is in the school," Ginny corrected him. "There’s a difference. Anyway, once you’re ack, I think I’ll try out for Chaser. Angelina and Alicia are oth leaving next year and I prefer goal-scoring to Seeking anyway."
Harry looked over at Ron, who was hunched in a corner, staring at his knees, a ottle of
Buttereer clutched in his hand.
"Angelina still won’t let him resign," Ginny said, as though reading Harry’s mind. "She says she
knows he’s got it in him."
Harry liked Angelina for the faith she was showing in Ron, ut at the same time thought it would
really e kinder to let him leave the team. Ron had left the pitch to another ooming chorus of
Weasley is our King sung with great gusto y the Slytherins, who were now favorites to win
the Quidditch Cup.
Fred and George wandered over.
"I haven’t even got the heart to take the mickey out of him," said Fred, looking over at Ron’s
crumpled figure. "Mind you... when he missed the fourteenth -"
He made wild motions with his arms as though doing an upright doggy-paddle.
"- well, I’ll save it for parties, eh?"
Ron dragged himself up to ed shortly after this. Out of respect for his feelings, Harry waited a
while efore going up to the dormitory himself, so that Ron could pretend to e asleep if he
wanted to. Sure enough, when Harry finally entered the room Ron was snoring a little too loudly
to e entirely plausile.
Harry got into ed, thinking aout the match. It had een immensely frustrating watching from
the sidelines. He was quite impressed y Ginny’s performance ut he knew if he had een
playing he could have caught the Snitch sooner... there had een a moment when it had een
fluttering near Kirke’s ankle; if Ginny hadn’t hesitated, she might have een ale to scrape a win
for Gryffindor.
Umridge had een sitting a few rows elow Harry and Hermione. Once or twice she had turned
squatly in her seat to look at him, her wide toad’s mouth stretched in what he thought had een a
gloating smile. The memory of it made him feel hot with anger as he lay there in the dark. After
a few minutes, however, he rememered that he was supposed to e emptying his mind of all
emotion efore he slept, as Snape kept instructing him at the end of every Occlumency lesson.
He tried for a moment or two, ut the thought of Snape on top of memories of Umridge merely
increased his sense of grumling resentment and he found himself focusing instead on how much
he loathed the pair of them. Slowly, Ron’s snores died away, to e replaced y the sound of
deep, slow reathing. It took Harry much longer to get to sleep; his ody was tired, ut it took his
rain a long time to close down.
He dreamed that Neville and Professor Sprout were waltzing around the Room of Requirement
while Professor McGonagall played the agpipes. He watched them happily for a while, then
decided to go and find the other memers of the D.A..
But when he left the room he found himself facing, not the tapestry of Barnaas the Barmy, ut a
torch urning in its racket on a stone wall. He turned his head slowly to the left. There, at the
far end of the windowless passage, was a plain, lack door.
He walked towards it with a sense of mounting excitement. He had the strangest feeling that this
time he was going to get lucky at last, and find the way to open it... he was feet from it, and saw
with a leap of excitement that there was a glowing strip of faint lue light down the right-hand
side... the door was ajar... he stretched out his hand to push it wide and -
Ron gave a loud, rasping, genuine snore and Harry awoke aruptly with his right hand stretched
in front of him in the darkness, to open a door that was hundreds of miles away. He let it fall
with a feeling of mingled disappointment and guilt. He knew he should not have seen the door,
ut at the same time felt so consumed with curiosity aout what was ehind it that he could not
help feeling annoyed with Ron... if only he could have saved his snore for just another minute.
They entered the Great Hall for reakfast at exactly the same moment as the post owls on
Monday morning. Hermione was not the only person eagerly awaiting her Daily Prophet: nearly
everyone was eager for more news aout the escaped Death Eaters, who, despite many reported
sightings, had still not een caught. She gave the delivery owl a Knut and unfolded the
newspaper eagerly while Harry helped himself to orange juice; as he had only received one note
during the entire year, he was sure, when the first owl landed with a thud in front of him, that it
had made a mistake.
"Who’re you after?" he asked it, languidly removing his orange juice from underneath its eak
and leaning forwards to see the recipient’s name and address:
Harry Potter, Great Hall, Hogwarts School
Frowning, he made to take the letter from the owl, ut efore he could do so, three, four, five
more owls had fluttered down eside it and were jockeying for position, treading in the utter
and knocking over the salt as each one attempted to give him their letter first.
"What’s going on?" Ron asked in amazement, as the whole of Gryffindor tale leaned forwards
to watch and another seven owls landed amongst the first ones, screeching, hooting and flapping
their wings.
"Harry!" said Hermione reathlessly, plunging her hands into the feathery mass and pulling out a
screech owl earing a long, cylindrical package. "I think I know what this means - open this one
first!"
Harry ripped off the rown packaging. Out rolled a tightly furled copy of the March edition
of The Quiler. He unrolled it to see his own face grinning sheepishly at him from the front
cover. In large red letters across this picture were the words:
SPEAKS OUT AT LAST: THE TRUTH ABOUT HE-WHO-MUST-NOT-BE-NAMED AND
THE NIGHT I SAW HIM RETURN
"It’s good, isn’t it?" said Luna, who had drifted o ver to the Gryffindor tale and now squeezed
herself on to the ench etween Fred and Ron. "It came out yesterday, I asked Dad to send you a
free copy. I expect all these," she waved a hand at the assemled owls still scraling around on
the tale in front of Harry, "are letters from readers."
"That’s what I thought," said Hermione eagerly. "Harry, d’you mind if we -?"
"Help yourself," said Harry, feeling slightly emused.
Ron and Hermione oth started ripping open envelopes.
"This one’s from a loke who thinks you’re off your rocker," said Ron, glancing down his letter.
"Ah well..."
"This woman recommends you try a good course of Shock Spells at St. Mungo’s," said Hermione, looking disappointed and crumpling up a second.
"This one looks okay, though," said Harry slowly, scanning a long letter from a witch in Paisley.
"Hey, she says she elieves me!"
"This one’s in two minds," said Fred, who had joined in the letter-opening with enthusiasm.
"Says you don’t come across as a mad person, ut he really doesn’t want to elieve You-Know-
Who’s ack so he doesn’t know what to think now. Blimey, what a waste of parchment."
"Here’s another one you’ve convinced, Harry!" said Hermione excitedly. "Having read your side
of the story, I am forced to the conclusion that the Daily Prophet has treated you very unfairly...
little though I want to think that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has returned, I am forced to accept that you are telling the truth... Oh, this is wonderful!"
"Another one who thinks you’re arking," said Ron, throwing a crumpled letter over his shoulder
"... ut this one says you’ve got her converted and she now thinks you’re a real hero - she’s put
in a photograph, too - wow!"
"What is going on here?" said a falsely sweet, girlish voice.
Harry looked up with his hands full of envelopes. Professor Umridge was standing ehind Fred
and Luna, her ulging toad’s eyes scanning the mess of owls and letters on the tale in front of
Harry. Behind her he saw many of the students watching them avidly.
"Why have you got all these letters, Mr. Potter?" she asked slowly.
"Is that a crime now?" said Fred loudly. "Getting mail?"
"Be careful, Mr. Weasley, or I shall have to put you in detention," said Umridge. "Well, Mr.
Potter?"
Harry hesitated, ut he did not see how he could keep what he had done quiet; it was surely only
a matter of time efore a copy of The Quiler came to Umridges attention.
"People have written to me ecause I gave an interview," said Harry. "Aout what happened to
me last June."
For some reason he glanced up at the staff tale as he said this. Harry had the strangest feeling
that Dumledore had een watching him a second efore, ut when he looked towards the
Headmaster he seemed to e asored in conversation with Professor Flitwick.
"An interview?" repeated Umridge, her voice thinner and higher than ever. "What do you
mean?"
"I mean a reporter asked me questions and I answered them," said Harry. "Here -"
And he threw the copy of The Quiler to her. She caught it and stared down at the cover. Her
pale, doughy face turned an ugly, patchy violet.
"When did you do this?" she asked, her voice tremling slightly.
"Last Hogsmeade weekend," said Harry.
She looked up at him, incandescent with rage, the magazine shaking in her stuy fingers.
"There will e no more Hogsmeade trips for you, Mr. Potter," she whispered. "How you dare...
how you could..." She took a deep reath. "I have tried again and again to teach you not to tell
lies. The message, apparently, has still not sunk in. Fifty points from Gryffindor and another
week’s worth of detentions."
She stalked away, clutching The Quiler to her chest, the eyes of many students following her.
By mid-morning enormous signs had een put up all over the school, not just on house
noticeoards, ut in the corridors and classrooms too.
BY ORDER OF THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS
Any student found in possession of the magazine The Quiler will e expelled.
The aove is in accordance with Educational Decree Numer Twenty-seven.
Signed: Dolores Jane Umridge, High Inquisitor
For some reason, every time Hermione caught sight of one of these signs she eamed with
pleasure.
"What exactly are you so happy aout?" Harry asked her.
"Oh, Harry, don’t you see?" Hermione reathed. "If she could have done one thing to make
asolutely sure that every single person in this school will read your interview, it was anning
it!"
And it seemed that Hermione was quite right. By the end of the day, though Harry had not seen
so much as a corner of The Quiler anywhere in the school, the whole place seemed to e
quoting the interview to each other. Harry heard them whispering aout it as they queued up
outside classes, discussing it over lunch and in the ack of lessons, while Hermione even
reported that every occupant of the cuicles in the girls’ toilets had een talking aout it when
she nipped in there efore Ancient Runes. "Then they spotted me, and oviously they know I
know you, so they omarded me with questions," Hermione told Harry, her eyes shining, "and
Harry, I think they elieve you, I really do, I think you’ve finally got them convinced!"
Meanwhile, Professor Umridge was stalking the school, stopping students at random and
demanding that they turn out their ooks and pockets: Harry knew she was looking for copies
of The Quiler, ut the students were several steps ahead of her. The pages carrying Harrys
interview had een ewitched to resemle extracts from textooks if anyone ut themselves read
it, or else wiped magically lank until they wanted to peruse it again. Soon it seemed that every
single person in the school had read it.
The teachers were of course foridden from mentioning the interview y Educational Decree
Numer Twenty-six, ut they found ways to express their feelings aout it all the same.
Professor Sprout awarded Gryffindor twenty points when Harry passed her a watering can; a
eaming Professor Flitwick pressed a ox of squeaking sugar mice on him at the end of Charms,
said, "Shh!" and hurried away; and Professor Trelawney roke into hysterical sos during
Divination and announced to the startled class, and a very disapproving Umridge, that Harry
was not going to suffer an early death after all, ut would live to a ripe old age, ecome Minister
for Magic and have twelve children.
But what made Harry happiest was Cho catching up with him as he was hurrying along to
Transfiguration the next day. Before he knew what had happened, her hand was in his and she
was reathing in his ear, "I’m really, really sorry. That interview was so rave... it made me cry."
He was sorry to hear she had shed even more tears over it, ut very glad they were on speaking
terms again, and even more pleased when she gave him a swift kiss on the cheek and hurried off
again. And unelievaly, no sooner had he arrived outside Transfiguration than something just as
good happened: Seamus stepped out of the queue to face him.
"I just wanted to say," he mumled, squinting at Harry’s left knee, "I elieve you. And I’ve sent a copy of that magazine to me mam."
If anything more was needed to complete Harry’s happiness, it was the reaction he got from
Malfoy, Crae and Goyle. He saw them with their heads together later that afternoon in the
lirary; they were with a weedy-looking oy Hermione whispered was called Theodore Nott.
They looked round at Harry as he rowsed the shelves for the ook he needed on Partial
Vanishment: Goyle cracked his knuckles threateningly and Malfoy whispered something
undoutedly malevolent to Crae. Harry knew perfectly well why they were acting like this: he
had named all of their fathers as Death Eaters.
"And the est it," whispered Hermione gleefully, as they left the lirary, "is they can’t contradict you, ecause they can’t admit they’ve read the article!"
To cap it all, Luna told him over dinner that no issue of The Quiler had ever sold out faster.
"Dad’s reprinting!" she told Harry, her eyes popping excitedly. "He can’t elieve it, he says
people seem even more interested in this than the Crumple-Horned Snorkacks!"
Harry was a hero in the Gryffindor common room that night. Daringly, Fred and George had put
an Enlargement Charm on the front cover of The Quiler and hung it on the wall, so that Harry’s giant head gazed down upon the proceedings, occasionally saying things like ‘THE MINISTRY ARE MORONS’ and ‘EAT DUNG, UMBRIDGE’ in a ooming voice. Hermione did not find this very amusing; she said it interfered with her concentration, and she ended up going to ed early out of irritation. Harry had to admit that the poster was not quite as funny after an hour or two, especially when the talking spell had started to wear off, so that it merely shouted
disconnected words like ‘DUNG’ and ‘UMBRIDGE’ at more and more frequent intervals in a
progressively higher voice. In fact, it started to make his head ache and his scar egan prickling
uncomfortaly again. To disappointed moans from the many people who were sitting around
him, asking him to relive his interview for the umpteenth time, he announced that he too needed
an early night.
The dormitory was empty when he reached it. He rested his forehead for a moment against the
cool glass of the window eside his ed; it felt soothing against his scar. Then he undressed and
got into ed, wishing his headache would go away. He also felt slightly sick. He rolled over on to
his side, closed his eyes, and fell asleep almost at once...
He was standing in a dark, curtained room lit y a single ranch of candles. His hands were
clenched on the ack of a chair in front of him. They were long-fingered and white as though
they had not seen sunlight for years and looked like large, pale spiders against the dark velvet of
the chair.
Beyond the chair, in a pool of light cast upon the floor y the candles, knelt a man in lack roes.
"I have een adly advised, it seems," said Harry, in a high, cold voice that pulsed with anger.
"Master, I crave your pardon," croaked the man kneeling on the floor. The ack of his head
glimmered in the candlelight. He seemed to e tremling.
"I do not lame you, Rookwood," said Harry in that cold, cruel voice.
He relinquished his grip on the chair and walked around it, closer to the man cowering on the
floor, until he stood directly over him in the darkness, looking down from a far greater height
than usual.
"You are sure of your facts, Rookwood?" asked Harry.
"Yes, My Lord, yes... I used to work in the Department after - after all..."
"Avery told me Bode would e ale to remove it."
"Bode could never have taken it, Master... Bode would have known he could not... undoutedly, that is why he fought so hard against Malfoy’s Imperius Curse..."
"Stand up, Rookwood," whispered Harry.
The kneeling man almost fell over in his haste to oey. His face was pockmarked; the scars were
thrown into relief y the candlelight. He remained a little stooped when standing, as though
halfway through a ow, and he darted terrified looks up at Harry’s face.
"You have done well to tell me this," said Harry. "Very well... I have wasted months on fruitless
schemes, it seems... ut no matter... we egin again, from now. You have Lord Voldemort’s
gratitude, Rookwood..."
"My Lord... yes, My Lord," gasped Rookwood, his voice hoarse with relief.
"I shall need your help. I shall need all the information you can give me."
"Of course, My Lord, of course... anything..."
"Very well... you may go. Send Avery to me."
Rookwood scurried ackwards, owing, and disappeared through a door.
Left alone in the dark room, Harry turned towards the wall. A cracked, age-spotted mirror hung
on the wall in the shadows. Harry moved towards it. His reflection grew larger and clearer in the
darkness... a face whiter than a skull... red eyes with slits for pupils...
"NOOOOOOOOO!"
"What?" yelled a voice neary.
Harry flailed around madly, ecame entangled in the hangings and fell out of his ed. For a few
seconds he did not know where he was; he was convinced he was aout to see the white, skulllike face looming at him out of the dark again, then very near to him Ron’s voice spoke.
"Will you stop acting like a maniac so I can get you out of here!"
Ron wrenched the hangings apart and Harry stared up at him in the moonlight, flat on his ack,
his scar searing with pain. Ron looked as though he had just een getting ready for ed; one arm
was out of his roes.
"Has someone een attacked again?" asked Ron, pulling Harry roughly to his feet. "Is it Dad? Is it that snake?"
"No - everyone’s fine -" gasped Harry, whose forehead felt as though it were on fire. "Well...
Avery isn’t... he’s in troule... he gave him the wrong information... Voldemort’s really angry"
Harry groaned and sank, shaking, on to his ed, ruing his scar.
"But Rookwood’s going to help him now... he’s on the right track again..."
"What are you talking aout?" said Ron, sounding scared. "D’you mean... did you just see You-
Know-Who?"
"I was You-Know-Who," said Harry, and he stretched out his hands in the darkness and held
them up to his face, to check that they were no longer deathly white and long-fingered. "He was
with Rookwood, he’s one of the Death Eaters who escaped from Azkaan, rememer? Rookwood’s just told him Bode couldn’t have done it."
"Done what?"
"Remove something... he said Bode would have known he couldn’t have done it... Bode was
under the Imperius Curse... I think he said Malfoy’s dad put it on him."
"Bode was ewitched to remove something?" Ron said. "But -Harry, that’s got to e -"
"The weapon," Harry finished the sentence for him. "I know"
The dormitory door opened; Dean and Seamus came in. Harry swung his legs ack into ed. He
did not want to look as though anything odd had just happened, seeing as Seamus had only just
stopped thinking Harry was a nutter.
"Did you say," murmured Ron, putting his head close to Harry’s on the pretence of helping
himself to water from the jug on his edside tale, "that you were You-Know-Who?"
"Yeah," said Harry quietly.
Ron took an unnecessarily large gulp of water; Harry saw it spill over his chin on to his chest.
"Harry," he said, as Dean and Seamus clattered around noisily, pulling off their roes and talking, "you’ve got to tell -"
"I haven’t got to tell anyone," said Harry shortly. "I wouldn’t have seen it at all if I could do
Occlumency. I’m supposed to have learned to shut this stuff out. That’s what they want."
By ‘they’ he meant Dumledore. He got ack into ed and rolled over on to his side with his
ack to Ron and after a while he heard Ron’s mattress creak as he, too, lay ack down. Harry’s
scar egan to urn; he it hard on his pillow to stop himself making a noise. Somewhere, he
knew, Avery was eing punished.
Harry and Ron waited until reak next morning to tell Hermione exactly what had happened;
they wanted to e asolutely sure they could not e overheard. Standing in their usual corner of
the cool and reezy courtyard, Harry told her every detail of the dream he could rememer.
When he had finished, she said nothing at all for a few moments, ut stared with a kind of
painful intensity at Fred and George, who were oth headless and selling their magical hats from
under their cloaks on the other side of the yard.
"So that’s why they killed him," she said quietly, withdrawing her gaze from Fred and George at
last. "When Bode tried to steal this weapon, something funny happened to him. I think there must e defensive spells on it, or around it, to stop people touching it. That’s why he was in St.
Mungo’s, his rain had gone all funny and he couldn’t talk. But rememer what the Healer told
us? He was recovering. And they couldn’t risk him getting etter, could they? I mean, the shock
of whatever happened when he touched that weapon proaly made the Imperius Curse lift.
Once he’d got his voice ack, he’d explain what he’d een doing, wouldn’t he? They would have
known he’d een sent to steal the weapon. Of course, it would have een easy for Lucius Malfoy
to put the curse on him. Never out of the Ministry, is he?"
"He was even hanging around that day I had my hearing," said Harry. "In the - hang on..." he
said slowly. "He was in the Department of Mysteries corridor that day! Your dad said he was
proaly trying to sneak down and find out what happened in my hearing, ut what if -"
"Sturgis!" gasped Hermione, looking thunderstruck.
"Sorry?" said Ron, looking ewildered.
"Sturgis Podmore -" said Hermione reathlessly, "arrested for trying to get through a door!
Lucius Malfoy must have got him too! I et he did it the day you saw him there, Harry. Sturgis
had Moody’s Invisiility Cloak, right? So, what if he was standing guard y the door, invisile,
and Malfoy heard him move - or guessed someone was there - or just did the Imperius Curse on
the off-chance there’d e a guard there? So, when Sturgis next had an opportunity - proaly
when it was his turn on guard duty again - he tried to get into the Department to steal the weapon
for Voldemort - Ron, e quiet - ut he got caught and sent to Azkaan..."
She gazed at Harry.
"And now Rookwood’s told Voldemort how to get the weapon?"
"I didn’t hear all the conversation, ut that’s what it sounded like," said Harry. "Rookwood used
to work there... maye Voldemort’ll send Rookwood to do it?"
Hermione nodded, apparently still lost in thought. Then, quite aruptly, she said, "But you shouldn’t have seen this at all, Harry."
"What?" he said, taken aack.
"You’re supposed to e learning how to close your m ind to this sort of thing," said Hermione,
suddenly stern.
"I know I am," said Harry. "But -"
"Well, I think we should just try and forget what you saw," said Hermione firmly. "And you
ought to put in a it more effort on your Occlumency from now on."
Harry was so angry with her he did not talk to her for the rest of the day, which proved to e
another ad one. When people were not discussing the escaped Death Eaters in the corridors,
they were laughing at Gryffindor’s aysmal performance in their match against Hufflepuff; the
Slytherins were singing Weasley is our King so loudly and frequently that y sundown Filch
had anned it from the corridors out of sheer irritation.
The week did not improve as it progressed. Harry received two more D’s in Potions; he was still
on tenterhooks that Hagrid might get the sack; and he couldn’t stop himself dwelling on the
dream in which he had een Voldemort - though he didn’t ring it up with Ron and Hermione
again; he didn’t want another telling-off from Hermione. He wished very much that he could
have talked to Sirius aout it, ut that was out of the question, so he tried to push the matter to
the ack of his mind.
Unfortunately, the ack of his mind was no longer the secure place it had once een.
"Get up, Potter."
A couple of weeks after his dream of Rookwood, Harry was to e found, yet again, kneeling on
the floor of Snape’s office, trying to clear his head. He had just een forced, yet again, to relive a
stream of very early memories he had not even realized he still had, most of them concerning
humiliations Dudley and his gang had inflicted upon him in primary school.
"That last memory," said Snape. "What was it?"
"I don’t know," said Harry, getting wearily to his feet. He was finding it increasingly difficult to
disentangle separate memories from the rush of images and sound that Snape kept calling forth.
"You mean the one where my cousin tried to make me stand in the toilet?"
"No," said Snape softly. "I mean the one with a man kneeling in the middle of a darkened
room..."
"It’s... nothing," said Harry.
Snape’s dark eyes ored into Harry’s. Rememering what Snape had said aout eye contact
eing crucial to Legilimency, Harry linked and looked away.
"How do that man and that room come to e inside your head, Potter?" said Snape.
"It -" said Harry, looking everywhere ut at Snape, "it was -just a dream I had."
"A dream?" repeated Snape.
There was a pause during which Harry stared fixedly at a large dead frog suspended in a jar of
purple liquid.
"You do know why we are here, don’t you, Potter?" said Snape, in a low, dangerous voice. "You
do know why I am giving up my evenings to this tedious jo?"
"Yes," said Harry stiffly.
"Remind me why we are here, Potter."
"So I can learn Occlumency," said Harry, now glaring at a dead eel.
"Correct, Potter. And dim though you may e -" Harry looked ack at Snape, hating him "- I
would have thought that after over two months of lessons you might have made some progress.
How many other dreams aout the Dark Lord have you had?"
"Just that one," lied Harry.
"Perhaps," said Snape, his dark, cold eyes narrowin g slightly, "perhaps you actually enjoy having these visions and dreams, Potter. Maye they make you feel special - important?"
"No, they don’t," said Harry, his jaw set and his fingers clenched tightly around the handle of his
wand.
"That is just as well, Potter," said Snape coldly, "ecause you are neither special nor important,
and it is not up to you to find out what the Dark Lord is saying to his Death Eaters."
"No - that’s your jo, isn’t it?" Harry shot at him.
He had not meant to say it; it had urst out of him in temper. For a long moment they stared at
each other, Harry convinced he had gone too far. But there was a curious, almost satisfied
expression on Snape’s face when he answered.
"Yes, Potter," he said, his eyes glinting. "That is my jo. Now, if you are ready, we will start
again."
He raised his wand: "One -- two - three -Legilimens!"
A hundred Dementors were swooping towards Harry across the lake in the grounds... he
screwed up his face in concentration... they were coming closer... he could see the dark holes
eneath their hoods... yet he could also see Snape standing in front of him, his eyes fixed on
Harry’s face, muttering under his reath... and somehow, Snape was growing clearer, and the
Dementors were growing fainter...
Harry raised his own wand.
"Protego!"
Snape staggered - his wand flew upwards, away from Harry - and suddenly Harry’s mind was
teeming with memories that were not his: a hook-nosed man was shouting at a cowering woman,
while a small dark-haired oy cried in a corner... a greasy-haired teenager sat alone in a dark
edroom, pointing his wand at the ceiling, shooting down flies... a girl was laughing as a
scrawny oy tried to mount a ucking roomstick -
"ENOUGH!"
Harry felt as though he had een pushed hard in the chest; he staggered several steps ackwards,
hit some of the shelves covering Snape’s walls and heard something crack. Snape was shaking
slightly, and was very white in the face.
The ack of Harry’s roes was damp. One of the jars ehind him had roken when he fell against
it; the pickled slimy thing within was swirling in its draining potion.
"Reparo," hissed Snape, and the jar sealed itself at once. "Well, Potter... that was certainly an
improvement..." Panting slightly, Snape straightened the Pensieve in which he had again stored
some of his thoughts efore starting the lesson, almost as though he was checking they were still
there. "I don’t rememer telling you to use a Shield Charm... ut there is no dout that it was
effective..."
Harry did not speak; he felt that to say anything might e dangerous. He was sure he had just
roken into Snape’s memories, that he had just seen scenes from Snape’s childhood. It was
unnerving to think that the little oy who had een crying as he watched his parents shouting was
actually standing in front of him with such loathing in his eyes.
"Let’s try again, shall we?" said Snape.
Harry felt a thrill of dread; he was aout to pay for what had just happened, he was sure of it.
They moved ack into position with the desk etween them, Harry feeling he was going to find it
much harder to empty his mind this time.
"On the count of three, then," said Snape, raising his wand once more. "One - two -"
Harry did not have time to gather himself together and attempt to clear his mind efore Snape
cried, "Legilimens!"
He was hurtling along the corridor towards the Department of Mysteries, past the lank stone
walls, past the torches - the plain lack door was growing ever larger; he was moving so fast he
was going to collide with it, he was feet from it and again he could see that chink of faint lue
light - The door had flown open! He was through it at last, inside a lack-walled, lack-floored
circular room lit with lue-flamed candles, and there were more doors all around him - he needed
to go on - ut which door ought he to take -?
"POTTER!"
Harry opened his eyes. He was flat on his ack again with no memory of having gotten there; he
was also panting as though he really had run the length of the Department of Mysteries corridor,
really had sprinted through the lack door and found the circular room.
"Explain yourself!" said Snape, who was standing over him, looking furious.
"I... dunno what happened," said Harry truthfully, st anding up. There was a lump on the ack of
his head from where he had hit the ground and he felt feverish. "I’ve never seen that efore. I
mean, I told you, I’ve dreamed aout the door... ut it’s never opened efore"
"You are not working hard enough!"
For some reason, Snape seemed even angrier than he had done two minutes efore, when Harry
had seen into his teacher’s memories.
"You are lazy and sloppy, Potter, it is small wonder that the Dark Lord -"
"Can you tell me something, sir?" said Harry, firing up again. "Why do you call Voldemort the
Dark Lord? I’ve only ever heard Death Eaters call him that."
Snape opened his mouth in a snarl - and a woman screamed from somewhere outside the room.
Snapes head jerked upwards; he was gazing at the ceiling.
"What the -?" he muttered.
Harry could hear a muffled commotion coming from what he thought might e the Entrance
Hall. Snape looked round at him, frowning.
"Did you see anything unusual on your way down here, Potter?"
Harry shook his head. Somewhere aove them, the woman screamed again. Snape strode to his
office door, his wand still held at the ready, and swept out of sight. Harry hesitated for a moment,
then followed.
The screams were indeed coming from the Entrance Hall; they grew louder as Harry ran towards
the stone steps leading up from the dungeons. When he reached the top he found the Entrance
Hall packed; students had come flooding out of the Great Hall, where dinner was still in
progress, to see what was going on; others had crammed themselves on to the marle staircase.
Harry pushed forwards through a knot of tall Slytherins and saw that the onlookers had formed a
great ring, some of them looking shocked, others even frightened. Professor McGonagall was
directly opposite Harry on the other side of the Hall; she looked as though what she was
watching made her feel faintly sick.
Professor Trelawney was standing in the middle of the Entrance Hall with her wand in one hand
and an empty sherry ottle in the other, looking utterly mad. Her hair was sticking up on end, her
glasses were lopsided so that one eye was magnified more than the other; her innumerale
shawls and scarves were trailing haphazardly from her shoulders, giving the impression that she
was falling apart at the seams. Two large trunks lay on the floor eside her, one of them upsidedown; it looked very much as though it had een thrown down the stairs after her. Professor Trelawney was staring, apparently terrified, at something Harry could not see ut which seemed to e standing at the foot of the stairs.
"No!" she shrieked. "NO! This cannot e happening... it cannot... I refuse to accept it!"
"You didn’t realize this was coming?" said a high girlish voice, sounding callously amused, and
Harry, moving slightly to his right, saw that Trelawney’s terrifying vision was nothing other than
Professor Umridge. "Incapale though you are of predicting even tomorrow’s weather, you
must surely have realized that your pitiful performance during my inspections, and lack of any
improvement, would make it inevitale that you would e sacked?"
"You c - can’t!" howled Professor Trelawney, tears streaming down her face from ehind her
enormous lenses, "you c - can’t sack me! I’ve  - een here sixteen years! H - Hogwarts is in -
my h - home!"
"It was your home," said Professor Umridge, and Harry was revolted to see the enjoyment
stretching her toadlike face as she watched Professor Trelawney sink, soing uncontrollaly, on
to one of her trunks, "until an hour ago, when the Minister of Magic countersigned your Order
of Dismissal. Now kindly remove yourself from this Hall. You are emarrassing us."
But she stood and watched, with an expression of gloating enjoyment, as Professor Trelawney
shuddered and moaned, rocking ackwards and forwards on her trunk in paroxysms of grief. Harry heard a muffled so to his left and looked around. Lavender and Parvati were oth crying
quietly, their arms round each other. Then he heard footsteps. Professor McGonagall had roken
away from the spectators, marched straight up to Professor Trelawney and was patting her firmly
on the ack while withdrawing a large handkerchief from within her roes.
"There, there, Siyll... calm down... low your nose on this... it’s not as ad as you think,
now... you are not going to have to leave Hogwarts..."
"Oh really, Professor McGonagall?" said Umridge in a deadly voice, taking a few steps forward. "And your authority for that statement is...?"
"That would e mine," said a deep voice.
The oaken front doors had swung open. Students eside them scuttled out of the way as
Dumledore appeared in the entrance. What he had een doing out in the grounds Harry could
not imagine, ut there was something impressive aout the sight of him framed in the doorway
against an oddly misty night. Leaving the doors wide open ehind him he strode forwards
through the circle of onlookers towards Professor Trelawney, tear-stained and tremling, on her
trunk, Professor McGonagall alongside her.
"Yours, Professor Dumledore?" said Umridge, with a singularly unpleasant little laugh. "I’m
afraid you do not understand the position. I have here -" she pulled a parchment scroll from
within her roes "-an Order of Dismissal signed y myself and the Minister for Magic. Under the
terms of Educational Decree Numer Twenty-three, the High Inquisitor of Hogwarts has the
power to inspect, place upon proation and sack any teacher she - that is to say, I - feel is not
performing to the standards required y the Ministry of Magic. I have decided that Professor
Trelawney is not up to scratch. I have dismissed her."
To Harry’s very great surprise, Dumledore continued to smile. He looked down at Professor
Trelawney, who was still soing and choking on her trunk, and said, "You are quite right, of
course, Professor Umridge. As High Inquisitor you have every right to dismiss my teachers.
You do not, however, have the authority to send them away from the castle. I am afraid," he went on, with a courteous little ow, "that the power to do that still resides with the Headmaster, and it is my wish that Professor Trelawney continue to live at Hogwarts."
At this, Professor Trelawney gave a wild little laugh in which a hiccough was arely hidden.
"No - no, I’ll g - go, Dumledore! I sh - shall - leave Hogwarts and s - seek my fortune elsewhere -"
"No," said Dumledore sharply. "It is my wish that you remain, Siyll."
He turned to Professor McGonagall.
"Might I ask you to escort Siyll ack upstairs, Professor McGonagall?"
"Of course," said McGonagall. "Up you get, Siyll..."
Professor Sprout came hurrying forwards out of the crowd and graed Professor Trelawney’s
other arm. Together, they guided her past Umridge and up the marle stairs. Professor Flitwick
went scurrying after them, his wand held out efore him; he squeaked "Locomotor trunks!" and
Professor Trelawney’s luggage rose into the air and proceeded up the staircase after her,
Professor Flitwick ringing up the rear.
Professor Umridge was standing stock still, staring at Dumledore, who continued to smile
enignly.
"And what," she said, in a whisper that carried all around the Entrance Hall, "are you going to do
with her once I appoint a new Divination teacher who needs her lodgings?"
"Oh, that won’t e a prolem," said Dumledore pleasantly. "You see, I have already found us a
new Divination teacher, and he will prefer lodgings on the ground floor."
"You’ve found -?" said Umridge shrilly. "You’ve found? Might I remind you, Dumledore, that under Educational Decree Numer Twenty-two -"
"The Ministry has the right to appoint a suitale candidate if -and only if- the Headmaster is
unale to find one," said Dumledore. "And I am happy to say that on this occasion I have
succeeded. May I introduce you?"
He turned to face the open front doors, through which night mist was now drifting. Harry heard
hooves. There was a shocked murmur around the Hall and those nearest the doors hastily moved
even further ackwards, some of them tripping over in their haste to clear a path for the
newcomer.
Through the mist came a face Harry had seen once efore on a dark, dangerous night in the
Foridden Forest: white-lond hair and astonishingly lue eyes; the head and torso of a man
joined to the palomino ody of a horse.
"This is Firenze," said Dumledore happily to a thunderstruck Umridge. "I think you’ll find him suitale."
CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
The Centaur and the Sneak
"I’ll et you wish you hadn’t given up Divination now, don’t you, Hermione?" asked Parvati,
smirking.
It was reakfast time, two days after the sacking of Professor Trelawney, and Parvati was curling
her eyelashes around her wand and examining the effect in the ack of her spoon. They were to
have their first lesson with Firenze that morning.
"Not really" said Hermione indifferently, who was reading the Daily Prophet. "I’ve never really
liked horses."
She turned a page of the newspaper and scanned its columns.
"He’s not a horse, he’s a centaur!" said Lavender, sounding shocked.
"A gorgeous centaur..." sighed Parvati.
"Either way, he’s still got four legs," said Hermione coolly. "Anyway I thought you two were all
upset that Trelawney had gone?"
"We are!" Lavender assured her. "We went up to her office to see her; we took her some daffodils - not the honking ones that Sprout’s got, nice ones."
"How is she?" asked Harry.
"Not very good, poor thing," said Lavender sympathetically. "She was crying and saying she’d
rather leave the castle forever than stay here where Umridge is, and I don’t lame her,
Umridge was horrile to her, wasn’t she?"
"I’ve got a feeling Umridge has only just started eing horrile," said Hermione darkly.
"Impossile," said Ron, who was tucking into a large plate of eggs and acon. "She can’t get any worse than she’s een already."
"You mark my words, she’s going to want revenge on Dumledore for appointing a new teacher
without consulting her," said Hermione, closing the newspaper. "Especially another part-human.
You saw the look on her face when she saw Firenze."
After reakfast Hermione departed for her Arithmancy class as Harry and Ron followed Parvati
and Lavender into the Entrance Hall, heading for Divination.
"Aren’t we going up to North Tower?" asked Ron, looking puzzled, as Parvati ypassed the
marle staircase.
Parvati looked at him scornfully over her shoulder.
"How d’you expect Firenze to clim that ladder? We’re in classroom eleven now, it was on the
noticeoard yesterday."
Classroom eleven was on the ground floor along the corridor leading off the Entrance Hall from
the opposite side to the Great Hall. Harry knew it was one of those classrooms that were never
used regularly, and therefore had the slightly neglected feeling of a cupoard or storeroom.
When he entered it right ehind Ron, and found himself in the middle of a forest clearing, he was
therefore momentarily stunned.
"What the -?"
The classroom floor had ecome springily mossy and trees were growing out of it; their leafy
ranches fanned across the ceiling and windows, so that the room was full of slanting shafts of
soft, dappled, green light. The students who had already arrived were sitting on the earthy floor
with their acks resting against tree trunks or oulders, arms wrapped around their knees or
folded tightly across their chests, and all looking rather nervous. In the middle of the clearing,
where there were no trees, stood Firenze.
"Harry Potter," he said, holding out a hand when Harry entered.
"Er - hi," said Harry, shaking hands with the centaur, who surveyed him unlinkingly through
those astonishingly lue eyes ut did not smile. "Er - good to see you."
"And you," said the centaur, inclining his white-lond head. "It was foretold that we would meet
again."
Harry noticed there was the shadow of a hoof-shaped ruise on Firenze’s chest. As he turned to
join the rest of the class on the ground, he saw they were all looking at him in awe, apparently
deeply impressed that he was on speaking terms with Firenze, whom they seemed to find
intimidating.
When the door was closed and the last student had sat down on a tree stump eside the
wastepaper asket, Firenze gestured around the room.
"Professor Dumledore has kindly arranged this classroom for us," said Firenze, when everyone
had settled down, "in imitation of my natural haitat. I would have preferred to teach you in the
Foridden Forest, which was - until Monday - my home... ut that is no longer possile."
"Please - er - sir -" said Parvati reathlessly, raising her hand, "- why not? We’ve een in there
with Hagrid, we’re not frightened!"
"It is not a question of your ravery," said Firenze, "ut of my position. I cannot return to the
Forest. My herd has anished me."
"Herd?" said Lavender in a confused voice, and Harry knew she was thinking of cows. "What -
oh!" Comprehension dawned on her face. "There are more o f you!" she said, stunned.
"Did Hagrid reed you, like the Thestrals?" asked Dean eagerly.
Firenze turned his head very slowly to face Dean, who seemed to realize at once that he had said
something very offensive.
"I didn’t - I meant - sorry" he finished in a hushed voice.
"Centaurs are not the servants or playthings of humans," said Firenze quietly. There was a pause,
then Parvati raised her hand again.
"Please, sir... why have the other centaurs anished you?"
"Because I have agreed to work for Professor Dumledore," said Firenze. "They see this as a
etrayal of our kind."
Harry rememered how, nearly four years ago, the centaur Bane had shouted at Firenze for
allowing Harry to ride to safety on his ack; he had called him a ‘common mule’. He wondered
whether it had een Bane who had kicked Firenze in the chest.
"Let us egin," said Firenze. He swished his long palomino tail, raised his hand towards the leafy canopy overhead, then lowered it slowly, and as he did so, the light in the room dimmed, so that they now seemed to e sitting in a forest clearing y twilight, and stars appeared on the ceiling.
There were oohs and gasps and Ron said audily, "Blimey!"
"Lie ack on the floor," said Firenze in his calm voice, "and oserve the heavens. Here is written, for those who can see, the fortune of our races."
Harry stretched out on his ack and gazed upwards at the ceiling. A twinkling red star winked at
him from overhead.
"I know that you have learned the names of the planets and their moons in Astronomy," said
Firenze’s calm voice, "and that you have mapped the stars progress through the heavens.
Centaurs have unraveled the mysteries of these movements over centuries. Our findings teach us
that the future may e glimpsed in the sky aove us -"
"Professor Trelawney did astrology with us!" said Parvati excitedly, raising her hand in front of
her so that it stuck up in the air as she lay on her ack. "Mars causes accidents and urns and
things like that, and when it makes an angle to Saturn, like now -" she drew a right-angle in the
air aove her "- that means people need to e extra careful when handling hot things -"
"That," said Firenze calmly, "is human nonsense."
Parvati’s hand fell limply to her side.
"Trivial hurts, tiny human accidents," said Firenze, as his hooves thudded over the mossy floor.
"These are of no more significance than the scurryings of ants to the wide universe, and are
unaffected y planetary movements."
"Professor Trelawney -" egan Parvati, in a hurt and indignant voice.
"- is a human," said Firenze simply. "And is therefore linkered and fettered y the limitations of
your kind."
Harry turned his head very slightly to look at Parvati. She looked very offended, as did several of
the people surrounding her.
"Siyll Trelawney may have Seen, I do not know," continued Firenze, and Harry heard the
swishing of his tail again as he walked up and down efore them, "ut she wastes her time, in the
main, on the self-flattering nonsense humans call fortune-telling. I, however, am here to explain
the wisdom of centaurs, which is impersonal and impartial. We watch the skies for the great tides
of evil or change that are sometimes marked there. It may take ten years to e sure of what we
are seeing."
Firenze pointed to the red star directly aove Harry.
"In the past decade, the indications have een that wizardkind is living through nothing more
than a rief calm etween two wars. Mars, ringer of attle, shines rightly aove us, suggesting
that the fight must soon reak out again. How soon, centaurs may attempt to divine y the
urning of certain hers and leaves, y the oservation of fume and flame..."
It was the most unusual lesson Harry had ever attended. They did indeed urn sage and
mallowsweet there on the classroom floor, and Firenze told them to look for certain shapes and
symols in the pungent fumes, ut he seemed perfectly unconcerned that not one of them could
see any of the signs he descried, telling them that humans were hardly ever good at this, that it
took centaurs years and years to ecome competent, and finished y telling them that it was
foolish to put too much faith in such things, anyway, ecause even centaurs sometimes read them
wrongly. He was nothing like any human teacher Harry had ever had. His priority did not seem
to e to teach them what he knew, ut rather to impress upon them that nothing, not even
centaurs’ knowledge, was foolproof.
"He’s not very definite on anything, is he?" said Ron in a low voice, as they put out their
mallowsweet fire. "I mean, I could do with a few more details aout this war we’re aout to
have, couldn’t you?"
The ell rang right outside the classroom door and everyone jumped; Harry had completely
forgotten they were still inside the castle, and quite convinced that he was really in the Forest.
The class filed out, looking slightly perplexed.
Harry and Ron were on the point of following them when Firenze called, "Harry Potter, a word,
please."
Harry turned. The centaur advanced a little towards him. Ron hesitated.
"You may stay," Firenze told him. "But close the door, please." Ron hastened to oey.
"Harry Potter, you are a friend of Hagrid’s, are you not?" said the centaur.
"Yes," said Harry.
"Then give him a warning from me. His attempt is not working. He would do etter to aandon
it."
"His attempt is not working?" Harry repeated lankly.
"And he would do etter to aandon it," said Firenze, nodding. "I would warn Hagrid myself, ut
I am anished - it would e unwise for me to go too near the Forest now - Hagrid has troules
enough, without a centaurs’ attle."
"But - what’s Hagrid attempting to do?" said Harry nervously.
Firenze surveyed Harry impassively.
"Hagrid has recently rendered me a great service," said Firenze, "and he has long since earned my respect for the care he shows all living creatures. I shall not etray his secret. But he must e
rought to his senses. The attempt is not working. Tell him, Harry Potter. Good-day to you."
The happiness Harry had felt in the aftermath of The Quiler interview had long since
evaporated. As a dull March lurred into a squally April, his life seemed to have ecome one
long series of worries and prolems again.
Umridge had continued attending all Care of Magical Creatures lessons, so it had een very
difficult to deliver Firenzes warning to Hagrid. At last, Harry had managed it y pretending he’d
lost his copy of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, and douling ack after class one day.
When he’d repeated Firenzes words, Hagrid gazed at him for a moment through his puffy,
lackened eyes, apparently taken aack. Then he seemed to pull himself together.
"Nice loke, Firenze," he said gruffly, "ut he don’ know what he’s talkin’ aou’ on this. The
attemp’s comin’ on fine."
"Hagrid, what’re you up to?" asked Harry seriously. "Because you’ve got to e careful, Umridge has already sacked Trelawney and, if you ask me, she’s on a roll. If you’re doing anything you shouldn’t e, you’ll e -"
"There’s things more importan’ than keepin’ a jo," said Hagrid, though his hands shook slightly
as he said this and a asin full of Knarl droppings crashed to the floor. "Don’ worry aou’ me,
Harry jus’ get along now, there’s a good lad."
Harry had no choice ut to leave Hagrid mopping up the dung all over his floor, ut he felt
thoroughly dispirited as he trudged ack up to the castle.
Meanwhile, as the teachers and Hermione persisted in reminding them, the OWLs were drawing
ever nearer. All the fifth-years were suffering from stress to some degree, ut Hannah Aott
ecame the first to receive a Calming Draught from Madam Pomfrey after she urst into tears
during Herology and soed that she was too stupid to take exams and wanted to leave school
now.
If it had not een for the D.A. lessons, Harry thought he would have een extremely unhappy. He sometimes felt he was living for the hours he spent in the Room of Requirement, working hard ut thoroughly enjoying himself at the same time, swelling with pride as he looked around at his fellow D.A. memers and saw how far they had come. Indeed, Harry sometimes wondered how Umridge was going to react when all the memers of the D.A. received ‘Outstanding’ in their Defense Against the Dark Arts OWLs.
They had finally started work on Patronuses, which everyody had een very keen to practice,
though, as Harry kept reminding them, producing a Patronus in the middle of a rightly lit
classroom when they were not under threat was very different from producing it when
confronted y something like a Dementor.
"Oh, don’t e such a killjoy," said Cho rightly, watching her silvery swan-shaped Patronus soar
around the Room of Requirement during their last lesson efore Easter. "They’re so pretty!"
"They’re not supposed to e pretty, they’re supposed to protect you," said Harry patiently. "What we really need is a Boggart or something; that’s how I learned, I had to conjure a Patronus while the Boggart was pretending to e a Dementor -"
"But that would e really scary!" said Lavender, who was shooting puffs of silver vapour out of
the end of her wand. "And I still -can’t - do it!" she added angrily.
Neville was having troule, too. His face was screwed up in concentration, ut only feele wisps
of silver smoke issued from his wand tip.
"You’ve got to think of something happy," Harry reminded him.
"I’m trying," said Neville miseraly, who was trying so hard his round face was actually shining
with sweat.
"Harry, I think I’m doing it"‘ yelled Seamus, who had een rought along to his first ever D.A.
meeting y Dean. "Look - ah -it’s gone... ut it was definitely something hairy, Harry!"
Hermione’s Patronus, a shining silver otter, was gamoling around her.
"They are sort of nice, aren’t they?" she said, looking at it fondly.
The door of the Room of Requirement opened, and closed. Harry looked round to see who had
entered, ut there did not seem to e anyody there. It was a few moments efore he realized that
the people close to the door had fallen silent. Next thing he knew, something was tugging at his
roes somewhere near the knee. He looked down and saw, to his very great astonishment, Doy
the house-elf peering up at him from eneath his usual eight woolly hats.
"Hi, Doy!" he said. "What are you - What’s wrong?"
The elf’s eyes were wide with terror and he was shaking. The memers of the D.A. closest to
Harry had fallen silent; everyody in the room was watching Doy. The few Patronuses people
had managed to conjure faded away into silver mist, leaving the room looking much darker than
efore.
"Harry Potter, sir..." squeaked the elf, tremling from head to foot, "Harry Potter, sir... Doy
has come to warn you... ut the house-elves have een warned not to tell..."
He ran head-first at the wall. Harry, who had some experience of Doys haits of self punishment, made to seize him, ut Doy merely ounced off the stone, cushioned y his eight hats. Hermione and a few of the other girls let out squeaks of fear and sympathy.
"What’s happened, Doy?" Harry asked, graing the elf’s tiny arm and holding him away from anything with which he might seek to hurt himself.
"Harry Potter... she... she..."
Doy hit himself hard on the nose with his free fist. Harry seized that, too.
"Who’s ‘she’, Doy?"
But he thought he knew; surely only one ‘she’ could induce such fear in Doy? The elf looked
up at him, slightly cross-eyed, and mouthed wordlessly.
"Umridge?" asked Harry, horrified.
Doy nodded, then tried to ang his head on Harry’s knees. Harry held him at arm’s length.
"What aout her? Doy - she hasn’t found out aout this - aout us - aout the D.A.?"
He read the answer in the elf’s stricken face. His hands held fast y Harry, the elf tried to kick
himself and fell to the floor.
"Is she coming?" Harry asked quietly.
Doy let out a howl, and egan eating his are feet hard on the floor.
"Yes, Harry Potter, yes!"
Harry straightened up and looked around at the motionless, terrified people gazing at the
thrashing elf.
"WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?" Harry ellowed. "RUN!"
They all pelted towards the exit at once, forming a scrum at the door, then people urst through.
Harry could hear them sprinting along the corridors and hoped they had the sense not to try and
make it all the way to their dormitories. It was only ten to nine; if they just took refuge in the
lirary or the Owlery, which were oth nearer -
"Harry, come on!" shrieked Hermione from the center of the knot of people now fighting to get
out.
He scooped up Doy, who was still attempting to do himself serious injury, and ran with the elf
in his arms to join the ack of the queue.
"Doy - this is an order - get ack down to the kitchen with the other elves and, if she asks you
whether you warned me, lie and say no!" said Harry. "And I forid you to hurt yourself!" he
added, dropping the elf as he made it over the threshold at last and slammed the door ehind him.
"Thank you, Harry Potter!" squeaked Doy, and he streaked off. Harry glanced left and right,
the others were all moving so fast he caught only glimpses of flying heels at either end of the
corridor efore they vanished; he started to run right; there was a oys’ athroom up ahead, he
could pretend he’d een in there all the time if he could just reach it -
"AAARGH!"
Something caught him around the ankles and he fell spectacularly, skidding along on his front
for six feet efore coming to a halt. Someone ehind him was laughing. He rolled over on to his
ack and saw Malfoy concealed in a niche eneath an ugly dragon-shaped vase.
"Trip Jinx, Potter!" he said. "Hey Professor - PROFESSOR! I’ve got one!"
Umridge came ustling round the far corner, reathless ut wearing a delighted smile.
"It’s him!" she said juilantly at the sight of Harry on the floor. "Excellent, Draco, excellent, oh,
very good - fifty points to Slytherin! I’ll take him from here... stand up, Potter!"
Harry got to his feet, glaring at the pair of them. He had never seen Umridge looking so happy.
She seized his arm in a vice-like grip and turned, eaming roadly, to Malfoy.
"You hop along and see if you can round up any more of them, Draco," she said. "Tell the others
to look in the lirary - anyody out of reath - check the athrooms, Miss Parkinson can do the
girls’ ones - off you go - and you," she added in her softest, most dangerous voice, as Malfoy
walked away, "you can come with me to the Headmasters office, Potter."
They were at the stone gargoyle within minutes. Harry wondered how many of the others had
een caught. He thought of Ron - Mrs. Weasley would kill him - and of how Hermione would
feel if she was expelled efore she could take her OWLs. And it had een Seamus’s very first
meeting... and Neville had een getting so good...
"Fizzing Whizzee," sang Umridge; the stone gargoyle jumped aside, the wall ehind split
open, and they ascended the moving stone staircase. They reached the polished door with the
griffin knocker, ut Umridge did not other to knock, she strode straight inside, still holding
tight to Harry.
The office was full of people. Dumledore was sitting ehind his desk, his expression serene, the
tips of his long fingers together. Professor McGonagall stood rigidly eside him, her face
extremely tense. Cornelius Fudge, Minister for Magic, was rocking ackwards and forwards on
his toes eside the fire, apparently immensely pleased with the situation; Kingsley Shackleolt
and a tough-looking wizard with very short wiry hair whom Harry did not recognize, were
positioned on either side of the door like guards, and the freckled, espectacled form of Percy
Weasley hovered excitedly eside the wall, a quill and a heavy scroll of parchment in his hands,
apparently poised to take notes.
The portraits of old headmasters and headmistresses were not shamming sleep tonight. All of
them were alert and serious, watching what was happening elow them. As Harry entered, a few
flitted into neighoring frames and whispered urgently into their neighor’s ear.
Harry pulled himself free of Umridge’s grasp as the door swung shut ehind them. Cornelius
Fudge was glaring at him with a kind of vicious satisfaction on his face.
"Well," he said. "Well, well, well..."
Harry replied with the dirtiest look he could muster. His heart drummed madly inside him, ut
his rain was oddly cool and clear.
"He was heading ack to Gryffindor Tower," said Umridge. There was an indecent excitement
in her voice, the same callous pleasure Harry had heard as she watched Professor Trelawney
dissolving with misery in the Entrance Hall. "The Malfoy oy cornered him."
"Did he, did he?" said Fudge appreciatively. "I must rememer to tell Lucius. Well, Potter... I
expect you know why you are here?"
Harry fully intended to respond with a defiant ‘yes’: his mouth had opened and the word was
half-formed when he caught sight of Dumledore’s face. Dumledore was not looking directly at
Harry - his eyes were fixed on a point just over his shoulder - ut as Harry stared at him, he
shook his head a fraction of an inch to each side.
Harry changed direction mid-word.
"Ye--no."
"I eg your pardon?" said Fudge.
"No," said Harry, firmly.
"You don’t know why you are here?"
"No, I don’t," said Harry.
Fudge looked incredulously from Harry to Professor Umridge. Harry took advantage of his
momentary inattention to steal another quick look at Dumledore, who gave the carpet the tiniest
of nods and the shadow of a wink.
"So you have no idea," said Fudge, in a voice positively sagging with sarcasm, "why Professor
Umridge has rought you to this office? You are not aware that you have roken any school
rules?"
"School rules?" said Harry. "No."
"Or Ministry Decrees?" amended Fudge angrily.
"Not that I’m aware of," said Harry landly.
His heart was still hammering very fast. It was almost worth telling these lies to watch Fudges
lood pressure rising, ut he could not see how on earth he would get away with them; if
someody had tipped off Umridge aout the D.A. then he, the leader, might as well e packing
his trunk right now.
"So, it’s news to you, is it," said Fudge, his voice now thick with anger, "that an illegal student
organization has een discovered within this school?"
"Yes, it is," said Harry, hoisting an unconvincing look of innocent surprise on to his face.
"I think, Minister," said Umridge silkily from eside him, "we might make etter progress if I
fetch our informant."
"Yes, yes, do," said Fudge, nodding, and he glanced maliciously at Dumledore as Umridge left the room. "There’s nothing like a good witness, is t here, Dumledore?"
"Nothing at all, Cornelius," said Dumledore gravely, inclining his head.
There was a wait of several minutes, in which noody looked at each other, then Harry heard the
door open ehind him. Umridge moved past him into the room, gripping y the shoulder Cho’s
curly-haired friend, Marietta, who was hiding her face in her hands.
"Don’t e scared, dear, don’t e frightened," said Professor Umridge softly, patting her on the
ack, "it’s quite all right, now. You have done the right thing. The Minister is very pleased with
you. He’ll e telling your mother what a good girl you’ve een.
"Marietta’s mother, Minister," she added, looking up at Fudge, "is Madam Edgecome from the
Department of Magical Transportation, Floo Network office - she’s een helping us police the
Hogwarts fires, you know."
"Jolly good, jolly good!" said Fudge heartily. "Like mother, like daughter, eh? Well, come on,
now, dear, look up, don’t e shy, let’s hear what you’ve got to - galloping gargoyles!"
As Marietta raised her head, Fudge leapt ackwards in shock, nearly landing himself in the fire.
He cursed, and stamped on the hem of his cloak which had started to smoke. Marietta gave a
wail and pulled the neck of her roes right up to her eyes, ut not efore everyone had seen that
her face was horrily disfigured y a series of close-set purple pustules that had spread across her
nose and cheeks to form the word SNEAK.
"Never mind the spots now, dear," said Umridge impatiently, "just take your roes away from
your mouth and tell the Minister -"
But Marietta gave another muffled wail and shook her head frantically.
"Oh, very well, you silly girl, I’ll tell him," snapped Umridge. She hitched her sickly smile ack on to her face and said, "Well, Minister, Miss Edgecome here came to my office shortly after dinner this evening and told me she had something she wanted to tell me. She said that if I
proceeded to a secret room on the seventh floor, sometimes known as the Room of Requirement,
I would find out something to my advantage. I questioned her a little further and she admitted
that there was to e some kind of meeting there. Unfortunately, at that point this hex," she waved
impatiently at Marietta’s concealed face, "came into operation and upon catching sight of her
face in my mirror the girl ecame too distressed to tell me any more."
"Well, now," said Fudge, fixing Marietta with what he evidently imagined was a kind and
fatherly look, "it is very rave of you, my dear, coming to tell Professor Umridge. You did
exactly the right thing. Now, will you tell me what happened at this meeting? What was its
purpose? Who was there?"
But Marietta would not speak; she merely shook her head again, her eyes wide and fearful.
"Haven’t we got a counter-jinx for this?" Fudge asked Umridge impatiently, gesturing at
Marietta’s face. "So she can speak freely?"
"I have not yet managed to find one," Umridge admitted grudgingly, and Harry felt a surge of
pride in Hermione’s jinxing aility. "But it doesn’t matter if she won’t speak, I can take up the
story from here."
"You will rememer, Minister, that I sent you a report ack in Octoer that Potter had met a
numer of fellow students in the Hog’s Head in Hogsmeade -"
"And what is your evidence for that?" cut in Professor McGonagall.
"I have testimony from Willy Widdershins, Minerva, who happened to e in the ar at the time.
He was heavily andaged, it is true, ut his hearing was quite unimpaired," said Umridge
smugly. "He heard every word Potter said and hastened straight to the school to report to me -"
"Oh, so that’s why he wasn’t prosecuted for setting up all those regurgitating toilets!" said
Professor McGonagall, raising her eyerows. "What an interesting insight into our justice
system!"
"Blatant corruption!" roared the portrait of the corpulent, red-nosed wizard on the wall ehind
Dumledore’s desk. "The Ministry did not cut deals with petty criminals in my day, no sir, they
did not!"
"Thank you, Fortescue, that will do," said Dumledore softly.
"The purpose of Potter’s meeting with these students," continued Professor Umridge, "was to
persuade them to join an illegal society, whose aim was to learn spells and curses the Ministry
has decided are inappropriate for school-age -"
"I think you’ll find you’re wrong there, Dolores," said Dumledore quietly, peering at her over
the half-moon spectacles perched halfway down his crooked nose.
Harry stared at him. He could not see how Dumledore was going to talk him out of this one; if
Willy Widdershins had indeed heard every word he had said in the Hog’s Head there was simply
no escaping it.
"Oho!" said Fudge, ouncing up and down on the alls of his feet again. "Yes, do let’s hear the
latest cock-and-ull story designed to pull Potter out of troule! Go on, then, Dumledore, go on
- Willy Widdershins was lying, was he? Or was it Potters identical twin in the Hog’s Head that
day? Or is there the usual simple explanation involving a reversal of time, a dead man coming
ack to life and a couple of invisile Dementors?"
Percy Weasley let out a hearty laugh.
"Oh, very good, Minister, very good!"
Harry could have kicked him. Then he saw, to his astonishment, that Dumledore was smiling
gently, too.
"Cornelius, I do not deny - and nor, I am sure, does Harry - that he was in the Hog’s Head that
day, nor that he was trying to recruit students to a Defense Against the Dark Arts group. I am
merely pointing out that Dolores is quite wrong to suggest that such a group was, at that time,
illegal. If you rememer, the Ministry Decree anning all student societies was not put into effect
until two days after Harrys Hogsmeade meeting, so he was not reaking any rules at all in the
Hog’s Head."
Percy looked as though he had een struck in the face y something very heavy. Fudge remained
motionless in mid-ounce, his mouth hanging open.
Umridge recovered first.
"That’s all very fine, Headmaster," she said, smiling sweetly, "ut we are now nearly six months
on from the introduction of Educational Decree Numer Twenty-four. If the first meeting was
not illegal, all those that have happened since most certainly are."
"Well," said Dumledore, surveying her with polite interest over the top of his interlocked
fingers, "they certainly would e, if they had continued after the Decree came into effect. Do you have any evidence that any such meetings continued?"
As Dumledore spoke, Harry heard a rustle ehind him and rather thought Kingsley whispered
something. He could have sworn, too, that he felt something rush against his side, a gentle
something like a draught or ird wings, ut looking down he saw nothing there.
"Evidence?" repeated Umridge, with that horrile wide toad-like smile. "Have you not een
listening, Dumledore? Why do you think Miss Edgecome is here?"
"Oh, can she tell us aout six months’ worth of meetings?" said Dumledore, raising his
eyerows. "I was under the impression that she was merely reporting a meeting tonight."
"Miss Edgecome," said Umridge at once, "tell us how long these meetings have een going on, dear. You can simply nod or shake your head, I’m sure that won’t make the spots worse. Have they een happening regularly over the last six months?"
Harry felt a horrile plummeting in his stomach. This was it, they had hit a dead end of solid
evidence that not even Dumledore would e ale to shift aside.
"Just nod or shake your head, dear," Umridge said coaxingly to Marietta, "come on, now, that
won’t re-activate the jinx."
Everyone in the room was gazing at the top of Marietta’s face. Only her eyes were visile
etween the pulled-up roes and her curly fringe. Perhaps it was a trick of the firelight, ut her
eyes looked oddly lank. And then - to Harry’s utter amazement - Marietta shook her head.
Umridge looked quickly at Fudge, then ack at Marietta.
"I don’t think you understood the question, did you, dear? I’m asking whether you’ve een going to these meetings for the past six months? You have, haven’t you?"
Again, Marietta shook her head.
"What do you mean y shaking your head, dear?" said Umridge in a testy voice.
"I would have thought her meaning was quite clear," said Professor McGonagall harshly, "there
have een no secret meetings for the past six months. Is that correct, Miss Edgecome?"
Marietta nodded.
"But there was a meeting tonight!" said Umridge furiously. "There was a meeting, Miss
Edgecome, you told me aout it, in the Room of Requirement! And Potter was the leader, was
he not, Potter organized it, Potter - why are you shaking your head, girl?"
"Well, usually when a person shakes their head," said McGonagall coldly, "they mean ‘no’. So
unless Miss Edgecome is using a form of sign-language as yet unknown to humans -"
Professor Umridge seized Marietta, pulled her round to face her and egan shaking her very
hard. A split second later Dumledore was on his feet, his wand raised; Kingsley started
forwards and Umridge leapt ack from Marietta, waving her hands in the air as though they had
een urned.
"I cannot allow you to manhandle my students, Dolores," said Dumledore and, for the first time, he looked angry.
"You want to calm yourself, Madam Umridge," said Kingsley, in his deep, slow voice. "You
don’t want to get yourself into troule, now."
"No," said Umridge reathlessly, glancing up at the towering figure of Kingsley. "I mean, yes -
you’re right, Shackleolt - I - I forgot myself."
Marietta was standing exactly where Umridge had released her. She seemed neither pertured
y Umridge’s sudden attack, nor relieved y her release; she was still clutching her roe up to
her oddly lank eyes and staring straight ahead of her.
A sudden suspicion, connected to Kingsley’s whisper and the thing he had felt shoot past him,
sprang into Harry’s mind.
"Dolores," said Fudge, with the air of trying to settle something once and for all, "the meeting
tonight - the one we know definitely happened -"
"Yes," said Umridge, pulling herself together, "yes... well, Miss Edgecome tipped me off and I proceeded at once to the seventh floor, accompanied y certain trustworthy students, so as to
catch those in the meeting red-handed. It appears that they were forewarned of my arrival,
however, ecause when we reached the seventh floor they were running in every direction. It
does not matter, however. I have all their names here, Miss Parkinson ran into the Room of
Requirement for me to see if they had left anything ehind. We needed evidence and the room
provided."
And to Harry’s horror, she withdrew from her pocket the list of names that had een pinned upon
the Room of Requirement’s wall and handed it to Fudge.
"The moment I saw Potter’s name on the list, I knew what we were dealing with," she said softly.
"Excellent," said Fudge, a smile spreading across his face, "excellent, Dolores. And... y
thunder..."
He looked up at Dumledore, who was still standing eside Marietta, his wand held loosely in
his hand.
"See what they’ve named themselves?" said Fudge quietly. "Dumledore’s Army."
Dumledore reached out and took the piece of parchment from Fudge. He gazed at the heading
scriled y Hermione months efore and for a moment seemed unale to speak. Then he looked
up, smiling.
"Well, the game is up," he said simply. "Would you like a written confession from me, Cornelius
- or will a statement efore these witnesses suffice?"
Harry saw McGonagall and Kingsley look at each other. There was fear in oth faces. He did not
understand what was going on, and nor, apparently, did Fudge.
"Statement?" said Fudge slowly. "What - I don’t -?"
"Dumledore’s Army, Cornelius," said Dumledore, still smiling as he waved the list of names
efore Fudge’s face. "Not Potter’s Army. Dumledore’s Army."
"But - ut -"
Understanding lazed suddenly in Fudges face. He took a horrified step ackwards, yelped, and
jumped out of the fire again.
"You?" he whispered, stamping again on his smouldering cloak.
"That’s right," said Dumledore pleasantly.
"You organized this?"
"I did," said Dumledore.
"You recruited these students for - for your army?"
"Tonight was supposed to e the first meeting," said Dumledore, nodding. "Merely to see
whether they would e interested in joining me. I see now that it was a mistake to invite Miss
Edgecome, of course."
Marietta nodded. Fudge looked from her to Dumledore, his chest swelling.
"Then you have een plotting against me!" he yelled.
"That’s right," said Dumledore cheerfully.
"NO!" shouted Harry.
Kingsley flashed a look of warning at him, McGonagall widened her eyes threateningly, ut it
had suddenly dawned on Harry what Dumledore was aout to do, and he could not let it
happen.
"No -- Professor Dumledore -!"
"Be quiet, Harry, or I am afraid you will have to leave my office," said Dumledore calmly.
"Yes, shut up, Potter!" arked Fudge, who was still ogling Dumledore with a kind of horrified
delight. "Well, well, well - I came here tonight expecting to expel Potter and instead -"
"Instead you get to arrest me," said Dumledore, smiling. "It’s like losing a Knut and finding a
Galleon, isn’t it?"
"Weasley!" cried Fudge, now positively quivering with delight, "Weasley, have you written it all
down, everything he’s said, his confession, have you got it?"
"Yes, sir, I think so, sir!" said Percy eagerly, whose nose was splattered with ink from the speed
of his note-taking.
"The it aout how he’s een trying to uild up an army against the Ministry, how he’s een
working to destailize me?"
"Yes, sir, I’ve got it, yes!" said Percy, scanning his notes joyfully.
"Very well, then," said Fudge, now radiant with glee, "duplicate your notes, Weasley, and send a
copy to the Daily Prophet at once. If we send a fast owl we should make the morning edition!"
Percy dashed from the room, slamming the door ehind him, and Fudge turned ack to
Dumledore. "You will now e escorted ack to the Ministry, where you will e formally
charged, then sent to Azkaan to await trial!"
"Ah," said Dumledore gently, "yes. Yes, I thought we might hit that little snag."
"Snag?" said Fudge, his voice still virating with joy. "I see no snag, Dumledore!"
"Well," said Dumledore apologetically, "I’m afraid I do."
"Oh, really?"
"Well - it’s just that you seem to e laoring under the delusion that I am going to - what is the
phrase? - come quietly. I am afraid I am not going to come quietly at all, Cornelius. I have
asolutely no intention of eing sent to Azkaan. I could reak out, of course - ut what a waste
of time, and frankly, I can think of a whole host of things I would rather e doing."
Umridge’s face was growing steadily redder; she looked as though she was eing filled with
oiling water. Fudge stared at Dumledore with a very silly expression on his face, as though he
had just een stunned y a sudden low and could not quite elieve it had happened. He made a
small choking noise, then looked round at Kingsley and the man with short grey hair, who alone
of everyone in the room had remained entirely silent so far. The latter gave Fudge a reassuring
nod and moved forwards a little, away from the wall. Harry saw his hand drift, almost casually,
towards his pocket.
"Don’t e silly, Dawlish," said Dumledore kindly. "I’m sure you are an excellent Auror - I seem to rememer that you achieved ‘Outstanding’ in all your NEWT s -- ut if you attempt to -- er -- ring me in y force, I will have to hurt you."
The man called Dawlish linked rather foolishly. He looked towards Fudge again, ut this time
seemed to e hoping for a clue as to what to do next.
"So," sneered Fudge, recovering himself, "you intend to take on Dawlish, Shackleolt, Dolores
and myself single-handed, do you, Dumledore?"
"Merlin’s eard, no," said Dumledore, smiling, "not unless you are foolish enough to force me
to."
"He will not e single-handed!" said Professor McGonagall loudly, plunging her hand inside her
roes.
"Oh yes he will, Minerva!" said Dumledore sharply. "Hogwarts needs you!"
"Enough of this ruish!" said Fudge, pulling out his own wand. "Dawlish! Shackleolt! Take
him!"
A streak of silver light flashed around the room; there was a ang like a gunshot and the floor
tremled; a hand graed the scruff of Harry’s neck and forced him down on the floor as a
second silver flash went off; several of the portraits yelled, Fawkes screeched and a cloud of dust
filled the air. Coughing in the dust, Harry saw a dark figure fall to the ground with a crash in
front of him; there was a shriek and a thud and someody cried, "No!"; then there was the sound
of reaking glass, frantically scuffling footsteps, a groan... and silence.
Harry struggled around to see who was half-strangling him and saw Professor McGonagall
crouched eside him; she had forced oth him and Marietta out of harm’s way. Dust was still
floating gently down through the air on to them. Panting slightly, Harry saw a very tall figure
moving towards them.
"Are you all right?" Dumledore asked.
"Yes!" said Professor McGonagall, getting up and dragging Harry and Marietta with her.
The dust was clearing. The wreckage of the office loomed into view: Dumledore’s desk had
een overturned, all of the spindly tales had een knocked to the floor, their silver instruments
in pieces. Fudge, Umridge, Kingsley and Dawlish lay motionless on the floor. Fawkes the
phoenix soared in wide circles aove them, singing softly.
"Unfortunately, I had to hex Kingsley too, or it would have looked very suspicious," said
Dumledore in a low voice. "He was remarkaly quick on the uptake, modifying Miss
Edgecome’s memory like that while everyone was looking the other way - thank him, for me,
won’t you, Minerva?
"Now, they will all awake very soon and it will e est if they do not know that we had time to
communicate - you must act as though no time has passed, as though they were merely knocked
to the ground, they will not rememer -"
"Where will you go, Dumledore?" whispered Professor McGonagall. "Grimmauld Place?"
"Oh no," said Dumledore, with a grim smile, "I am not leaving to go into hiding. Fudge will
soon wish he’d never dislodged me from Hogwarts, I promise you."
"Professor Dumledore..." Harry egan.
He did not know what to say first: how sorry he was that he had started the D.A. in the first place
and caused all this troule, or how terrile he felt that Dumledore was leaving to save him from
expulsion? But Dumledore cut him off efore he could say another word.
"Listen to me, Harry," he said urgently. "You must study Occlumency as hard as you can, do you understand me? Do everything Professor Snape tells you and practice it particularly every night efore sleeping so that you can close your mind to ad dreams - you will understand why soon enough, ut you must promise me -"
The man called Dawlish was stirring. Dumledore seized Harry’s wrist.
"Rememer - close your mind -"
But as Dumledore’s fingers closed over Harrys skin, a pain shot through the scar on his
forehead and he felt again that terrile, snakelike longing to strike Dumledore, to ite him, to
hurt him -
"- you will understand," whispered Dumledore.
Fawkes circled the office and swooped low over him. Dumledore released Harry, raised his
hand and grasped the phoenix’s long golden tail. There was a flash of fire and the pair of them
were gone.
"Where is he?" yelled Fudge, pushing himself up from the floor. "Where is he?"
"I don’t know!" shouted Kingsley, also leaping to his feet.
"Well, he can’t have Disapparated!" cried Umridge. "You can’t do it from inside this school -"
"The stairs!" cried Dawlish, and he flung himself upon the door, wrenched it open and
disappeared, followed closely y Kingsley and Umridge. Fudge hesitated, then got slowly to his
feet, rushing dust from his front. There was a long and painful silence.
"Well, Minerva," said Fudge nastily, straightening his torn shirtsleeve, "I’m afraid this is the end
of your friend Dumledore."
"You think so, do you?" said Professor McGonagall scornfully.
Fudge seemed not to hear her. He was looking around at the wrecked office. A few of the
portraits hissed at him; one or two even made rude hand gestures.
"You’d etter get those two off to ed," said Fudge, looking ack at Professor McGonagall with a dismissive nod towards Harry and Marietta.
Professor McGonagall said nothing, ut marched Harry and Marietta to the door. As it swung
closed ehind them, Harry heard Phineas Nigellus’s voice.
"You know, Minister, I disagree with Dumledore on many counts... ut you cannot deny he’s
got style..."
CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
Snape’s Worst Memory
BY ORDER OF THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
Dolores Jane Umridge (High Inquisitor) has replaced Alus Dumledore as Head of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The aove is in accordance with Educational Decree Numer Twenty-eight.
Signed: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister for Magic
The notices had gone up all around the school overnight, ut they did not explain how every
single person within the castle seemed to know that Dumledore had overcome two Aurors, the
High Inquisitor, the Minister for Magic and his Junior Assistant to escape. No matter where
Harry went within the castle, the sole topic of conversation was Dumledore’s flight, and though
some of the details may have gone awry in the retelling (Harry overheard one second-year girl
assuring another that Fudge was now lying in St. Mungo’s with a pumpkin for a head) it was
surprising how accurate the rest of their information was. Everyody knew, for instance, that
Harry and Marietta were the only students to have witnessed the scene in Dumledore’s office
and, as Marietta was now in the hospital wing, Harry found himself esieged with requests to
give a first-hand account.
"Dumledore will e ack efore long," said Ernie Macmillan confidently on the way ack from
Herology, after listening intently to Harry’s story. "They couldn’t keep him away in our second
year and they won’t e ale to this time. The Fat Friar told me -" he dropped his voice
conspiratorially, so that Harry, Ron and Hermione had to lean closer to him to hear "- that
Umridge tried to get ack into his office last night after they’d searched the castle and grounds
for him. Couldn’t get past the gargoyle. The Head’s office has sealed itself against her." Ernie
smirked. "Apparently, she had a right little tantrum."
"Oh, I expect she really fancied herself sitting up there in the Heads office," said Hermione
viciously, as they walked up the stone steps into the Entrance Hall. "Lording it over all the other
teachers, the stupid puffed-up, power-crazy old -"
"Now, do you really want to finish that sentence, Granger?"
Draco Malfoy had slid out from ehind the door, closely followed y Crae and Goyle. His
pale, pointed face was alight with malice.
"Afraid I’m going to have to dock a few points from Gryffindor and Hufflepuff," he drawled.
"It’s only teachers who can dock points from houses, Malfoy," said Ernie at once.
"Yeah, we’re prefects, too, rememer?" snarled Ron.
"I know prefects can’t dock points, Weasel King," sneered Malfoy. Crae and Goyle sniggered.
"But memers of the Inquisitorial Squad -"
"The what!" said Hermione sharply.
"The Inquisitorial Squad, Granger," said Malfoy, pointing towards a tiny silver ‘I’ on his roes just eneath his prefect’s adge. "A select group of students who are supportive of the Ministry of Magic, hand-picked y Professor Umridge. Anyway, memers of the Inquisitorial Squad do
have the power to dock points... so, Granger, I’ll have five from you for eing rude aout our
new Headmistress. Macmillan, five for contradicting me. Five ecause I don’t like you, Potter.
Weasley, your shirts untucked, so I’ll have another five for that. Oh yeah, I forgot, you’re a
Mudlood, Granger, so ten off for that."
Ron pulled out his wand, ut Hermione pushed it away, whispering, "Don’t!"
"Wise move, Granger," reathed Malfoy. "New Head, new times... e good now, Potty... Weasel King..."
Laughing heartily, he strode away with Crae and Goyle.
"He was luffing," said Ernie, looking appalled. "He can’t e allowed to dock points... that
would e ridiculous... it would completely undermine the prefect system."
But Harry, Ron and Hermione had turned automatically towards the giant hour-glasses set in
niches along the wall ehind them, which recorded the house-points. Gryffindor and Ravenclaw
had een neck and neck in the lead that morning. Even as they watched, stones flew upwards,
reducing the amounts in the lower uls. In fact, the only glass that seemed unchanged was the
emerald-filled one of Slytherin.
"Noticed, have you?" said Fred’s voice.
He and George had just come down the marle staircase and joined Harry, Ron, Hermione and
Ernie in front of the hour-glasses.
"Malfoy just docked us all aout fifty points," said Harry furiously, as they watched several more stones fly upwards from the Gryffindor hour-glass.
"Yeah, Montague tried to do us during reak," said George.
"What do you mean, ‘tried’?" said Ron quickly.
"He never managed to get all the words out," said Fred, "due to the fact that we forced him headfirst into that Vanishing Cainet on the first floor."
Hermione looked very shocked.
"But you’ll get into terrile troule!"
"Not until Montague reappears, and that could take weeks, I dunno where we sent him," said
Fred coolly. "Anyway... we’ve decided we don’t care aout getting into troule any more."
"Have you ever?" asked Hermione.
"Course we have," said George. "Never een expelled, have we?"
"We’ve always known where to draw the line," said Fred.
"We might have put a toe across it occasionally," said George.
"But we’ve always stopped short of causing real mayhem," said Fred.
"But now?" said Ron tentatively.
"Well, now -" said George.
"- what with Dumledore gone -" said Fred.
"- we reckon a it of mayhem --" said George.
"-- is exactly what our dear new Head deserves," said Fred.
"You mustn’t!" whispered Hermione. "You really mustn’t! She’d love a reason to expel you!"
"You don’t get it, Hermione, do you?" said Fred, smiling at her. "We don’t care aout staying anymore. We’d walk out right now if we weren’t determined to do our it for Dumledore first. So, anyway," he checked his watch, "phase one is aout to egin. I’d get in the Great Hall for lunch, if I were you, that way the teachers will see you can’t have had anything to do with it."
"Anything to do with what?" said Hermione anxiously.
"You’ll see," said George. "Run along, now."
Fred and George turned away and disappeared into the swelling crowd descending the stairs
towards lunch. Looking highly disconcerted, Ernie muttered something aout unfinished
Transfiguration homework and scurried away.
"I think we should get out of here, you know," said Hermione nervously. "Just in case"
"Yeah, all right," said Ron, and the three of them moved towards the doors to the Great Hall, ut
Harry had arely glimpsed the day’s ceiling of scudding white clouds when someody tapped
him on the shoulder and, turning, he found himself almost nose-to-nose with Filch the caretaker.
He took several hasty steps ackwards; Filch was est viewed at a distance.
"The Headmistress would like to see you, Potter," he leered.
"I didn’t do it," said Harry stupidly, thinking of whatever Fred and George were planning. Filch’s jowls woled with silent laughter.
"Guilty conscience, eh?" he wheezed. "Follow me."
Harry glanced ack at Ron and Hermione, who were oth looking worried. He shrugged, and
followed Filch ack into the Entrance Hall, against the tide of hungry students.
Filch seemed to e in an extremely good mood; he hummed creakily under his reath as they
climed the marle staircase. As they reached the first landing he said, "Things are changing
around here, Potter."
"I’ve noticed," said Harry coldly.
"Yerse... I’ve een telling Dumledore for years and years he’s too soft with you all," said Filch,
chuckling nastily. "You filthy little easts would never have dropped Stink Pellets if you’d
known I had it in my power to whip you raw, would you, now? Noody would have thought of
throwing Fanged Frisees down the corridors if I could’ve strung you up y the ankles in my
office, would they? But when Educational Decree Numer Twenty-nine comes in, Potter, I’ll e
allowed to do them things... and she’s asked the Minister to sign an order for the expulsion of
Peeves... oh, things are going to e very different around here with her in charge."
Umridge had oviously gone to some lengths to get Filch on her side, Harry thought, and the
worst of it was that he would proaly prove an important weapon; his knowledge of the
school’s secret passageways and hiding places was proaly second only to that of the Weasley
twins.
"Here we are," he said, leering down at Harry as he rapped three times on Professor Umridge’s
door and pushed it open. "The Potter oy to see you, Ma’am."
Umridge’s office, so very familiar to Harry from his many detentions, was the same as usual
except for the large wooden lock lying across the front of her desk on which golden letters
spelled the word: HEADMISTRESS. Also, his Fireolt and Fred and George’s Cleansweeps,
which he saw with a pang, were chained and padlocked to a stout iron peg in the wall ehind the
desk.
Umridge was sitting ehind the desk, usily scriling on some of her pink parchment, ut she
looked up and smiled widely at their entrance.
"Thank you, Argus," she said sweetly.
"Not at all, Ma’am, not at all," said Filch, owing as low as his rheumatism would permit, and
exiting ackwards.
"Sit," said Umridge curtly, pointing towards a chair. Harry sat. She continued to scrile for a
few moments. He watched some of the foul kittens gamoling around the plates over her head,
wondering what fresh horror she had in store for him.
"Well, now," she said finally, setting down her quill and surveying him complacently, like a toad
aout to swallow a particularly juicy fly. "What would you like to drink?"
"What?" said Harry, quite sure he had misheard her.
"To drink, Mr. Potter," she said, smiling still more widely. "Tea? Coffee? Pumpkin juice?"
As she named each drink, she gave her short wand a wave, and a cup or glass of it appeared on
her desk.
"Nothing, thank you," said Harry.
"I wish you to have a drink with me," she said, her voice ecoming dangerously sweet. "Choose
one."
"Fine... tea then," said Harry, shrugging.
She got up and made quite a performance of adding milk with her ack to him. She then ustled
around the desk with it, smiling in a sinisterly sweet fashion.
"There," she said, handing it to him. "Drink it efore it gets cold, won’t you? Well, now, Mr.
Potter... I thought we ought to have a little chat, after the distressing events of last night."
He said nothing. She settled herself ack into her seat and waited. When several long moments
had passed in silence, she said gaily, "You’re not drinking up!"
He raised the cup to his lips and then, just as suddenly, lowered it. One of the horrile painted
kittens ehind Umridge had great round lue eyes just like Mad-Eye Moody’s magical one and
it had just occurred to Harry what Mad-Eye would say if he ever heard that Harry had drunk
anything offered y a known enemy.
"What’s the matter?" said Umridge, who was still watching him closely. "Do you want sugar?"
"No," said Harry.
He raised the cup to his lips again and pretended to take a sip, though keeping his mouth tightly
closed. Umridge’s smile widened.
"Good," she whispered. "Very good. Now then..." She leaned forwards a little. "Where is Alus
Dumledore?"
"No idea," said Harry promptly.
"Drink up, drink up," she said, still smiling. "Now, Mr. Potter, let us not play childish games. I
know that you know where he has gone. You and Dumledore have een in this together from
the eginning. Consider your position, Mr. Potter..."
"I don’t know where he is," Harry repeated.
He pretended to drink again. She was watching him very closely.
"Very well," she said, though she looked displeased. "In that case, you will kindly tell me the
whereaouts of Sirius Black."
Harry’s stomach turned over and his hand holding the teacup shook so that it rattled in its saucer.
He tilted the cup to his mouth with his lips pressed together, so that some of the hot liquid
trickled down on to his roes.
"I don’t know," he said, a little too quickly.
"Mr. Potter," said Umridge, "let me remind you that it was I who almost caught the criminal
Black in the Gryffindor fire in Octoer. I know perfectly well it was you he was meeting and if I
had had any proof neither of you would e at large today, I promise you. I repeat, Mr. Potter...
where is Sirius Black?"
"No idea," said Harry loudly. "Haven’t got a clue."
They stared at each other so long that Harry felt his eyes watering. Then Umridge stood up.
"Very well, Potter, I will take your word for it this time, ut e warned: the might of the Ministry
stands ehind me. All channels of communication in and out of this school are eing monitored.
A Floo Network Regulator is keeping watch over every fire in Hogwarts - except my own, of
course. My Inquisitorial Squad is opening and reading all owl post entering and leaving the
castle. And Mr. Filch is oserving all secret passages in and out of the castle. If I find a shred of
evidence..."
BOOM!
The very floor of the office shook. Umridge slipped sideways, clutching her desk for support,
and looking shocked.
"What was -?"
She was gazing towards the door. Harry took the opportunity to empty his almost-full cup of tea
into the nearest vase of dried flowers. He could hear people running and screaming several floors
elow.
"Back to lunch you go, Potter!" cried Umridge, raising her wand and dashing out of the office.
Harry gave her a few seconds’ start, then hurried after her to see what the source of all the uproar
was.
It was not difficult to find. One floor down, pandemonium reigned. Someody (and Harry had a
very shrewd idea who) had set off what seemed to e an enormous crate of enchanted fireworks.
Dragons comprised entirely of green and gold sparks were soaring up and down the corridors,
emitting loud fiery lasts and angs as they went; shocking-pink Catherine wheels five feet in
diameter were whizzing lethally through the air like so many flying saucers; rockets with long
tails of rilliant silver stars were ricocheting off the walls; sparklers were writing swear words in
midair of their own accord; firecrackers were exploding like mines everywhere Harry looked,
and instead of urning themselves out, fading from sight or fizzling to a halt, these pyrotechnical
miracles seemed to e gaining in energy and momentum the longer he watched.
Filch and Umridge were standing, apparently transfixed in horror, halfway down the stairs. As
Harry watched, one of the larger Catherine wheels seemed to decide that what it needed was
more room to maneuver; it whirled towards Umridge and Filch with a sinister ‘wheeeeeeeeee’.
They oth yelled with fright and ducked, and it soared straight out of the window ehind them
and off across the grounds. Meanwhile, several of the dragons and a large purple at that was
smoking ominously took advantage of the open door at the end of the corridor to escape towards
the second floor.
"Hurry, Filch, hurry!" shrieked Umridge, "they’ll e all over the school unless we do something
- Stupefy"
A jet of red light shot out of the end of her wand and hit one of the rockets. Instead of freezing in
midair, it exploded with such force that it lasted a hole in a painting of a soppy-looking witch in
the middle of a meadow; she ran for it just in time, reappearing seconds later squashed into the
next painting, where a couple of wizards playing cards stood up hastily to make room for her.
"Don’t Stun them, Filch!" shouted Umridge angrily, for all the world as though it had een his
incantation.
"Right you are, Headmistress!" wheezed Filch, who as a Squi could no more have Stunned the
fireworks than swallowed them. He dashed to a neary cupoard, pulled out a room and egan
swatting at the fireworks in midair; within seconds the head of the room was alaze.
Harry had seen enough; laughing, he ducked down low, ran to a door he knew was concealed
ehind a tapestry a little way along the corridor and slipped through it to find Fred and George
hiding just ehind it, listening to Umridge and Filch’s yells and quaking with suppressed mirth.
"Impressive," Harry said quietly, grinning. "Very impressive... you’ll put Dr. Filiuster out of
usiness, no prolem..."
"Cheers," whispered George, wiping tears of laughter from his face. "Oh, I hope she tries
Vanishing them next... they multiply y ten every time you try."
The fireworks continued to urn and to spread all over the school that afternoon. Though they
caused plenty of disruption, particularly the firecrackers, the other teachers didn’t seem to mind
them very much.
"Dear, dear," said Professor McGonagall sardonically, as one of the dragons soared around her
classroom, emitting loud angs and exhaling flame. "Miss Brown, would you mind running
along to the Headmistress and informing her that we have an escaped firework in our
classroom?"
The upshot of it all was that Professor Umridge spent her first afternoon as Headmistress
running all over the school answering the summonses of the other teachers, none of whom
seemed ale to rid their rooms of the fireworks without her. When the final ell rang and they
were heading ack to Gryffindor Tower with their ags, Harry saw, with immense satisfaction, a
disheveled and soot-lackened Umridge tottering sweaty-faced from Professor Flitwick’s
classroom.
"Thank you so much, Professor!" said Professor Flitwick in his squeaky little voice. "I could have got rid of the sparklers myself, of course, ut I wasn’t sure whether or not I had the authority."
Beaming, he closed his classroom door in her snarling face.
Fred and George were heroes that night in the Gryffindor common room. Even Hermione fought
her way through the excited crowd to congratulate them.
"They were wonderful fireworks," she said admiringly.
"Thanks," said George, looking oth surprised and pleased. "Weasleys’ Wildfire Whiz-angs.
Only thing is, we used our whole stock; we’re going to have to start again from scratch now."
"It was worth it, though," said Fred, who was taking orders from clamouring Gryffindors. "If you want to add your name to the waiting list, Hermione, it’s five Galleons for your Basic Blaze ox and twenty for the Deflagration Deluxe..."
Hermione returned to the tale where Harry and Ron were sitting staring at their schoolags as
though hoping their homework would spring out and start doing itself.
"Oh, why don’t we have a night off?" said Hermione rightly, as a silver-tailed Weasley rocket
zoomed past the window. "After all, the Easter holidays start on Friday, we’ll have plenty of time then."
"Are you feeling all right?" Ron asked, staring at her in diselief.
"Now you mention it," said Hermione happily, "d’you know... I think I’m feeling a
it... reellious."
Harry could still hear the distant angs of escaped firecrackers when he and Ron went up to ed
an hour later; and as he got undressed a sparkler floated past the tower, still resolutely spelling
out the word TOO.
He got into ed, yawning. With his glasses off, the occasional firework passing the window had
ecome lurred, looking like sparkling clouds, eautiful and mysterious against the lack sky.
He turned on to his side, wondering how Umridge was feeling aout her first day in
Dumledore’s jo, and how Fudge would react when he heard that the school had spent most of
the day in a state of advanced disruption. Smiling to himself, Harry closed his eyes...
The whizzes and angs of escaped fireworks in the grounds seemed to e growing more
distant... or perhaps he was simply speeding away from them...
He had fallen right into the corridor leading to the Department of Mysteries. He was speeding
towards the plain lack door... let it open... let it open...
It did. He was inside the circular room lined with doors... he crossed it, placed his hand on an
identical door and it swung inwards...
Now he was in a long, rectangular room full of an odd mechanical clicking. There were dancing
flecks of light on the walls ut he did not pause to investigate... he had to go on...
There was a door at the far end... it, too, opened at his touch...
And now he was in a dimly lit room as high and wide as a church, full of nothing ut rows and
rows of towering shelves, each laden with small, dusty, spun-glass spheres... now Harrys heart
was eating fast with excitement... he knew where to go... he ran forwards, ut his footsteps
made no noise in the enormous, deserted room...
There was something in this room he wanted very, very much...
Something he wanted... or someody else wanted...
His scar was hurting...
BANG!
Harry awoke instantly, confused and angry. The dark dormitory was full of the sound of
laughter.
"Cool!" said Seamus, who was silhouetted against the window. "I think one of those Catherine
wheels hit a rocket and it’s like they mated, come and see!"
Harry heard Ron and Dean scramle out of ed for a etter look. He lay quite still and silent
while the pain in his scar susided and disappointment washed over him. He felt as though a
wonderful treat had een snatched from him at the very last moment... he had got so close that
time.
Glittering pink and silver winged piglets were now soaring past the windows of Gryffindor
Tower. Harry lay and listened to the appreciative whoops of Gryffindors in the dormitories
elow them. His stomach gave a sickening jolt as he rememered that he had Occlumency the
following evening.
Harry spent the whole of the next day dreading what Snape was going to say if he found out how
much further into the Department of Mysteries Harry had penetrated during his last dream. With
a surge of guilt he realized that he had not practiced Occlumency once since their last lesson:
there had een too much going on since Dumledore had left; he was sure he would not have
een ale to empty his mind even if he had tried. He douted, however, whether Snape would
accept that excuse.
He attempted a little last-minute practice during classes that day, ut it was no good. Hermione
kept asking him what was wrong whenever he fell silent trying to rid himself of all thought and
emotion and, after all, the est moment to empty his rain was not while teachers were firing
review questions at the class.
Resigned to the worst, he set off for Snape’s office after dinner. Halfway across the Entrance
Hall, however, Cho came hurrying up to him.
"Over here," said Harry, glad of a reason to postpone his meeting with Snape, and eckoning her
across to the corner of the Entrance Hall where the giant hour-glasses stood. Gryffindor’s was
now almost empty. "Are you okay? Umridge hasn’t een asking you aout the D.A., has she?"
"Oh, no," said Cho hurriedly. "No, it was only... well, I just wanted to say... Harry, I never
dreamed Marietta would tell..."
"Yeah, well," said Harry moodily. He did feel Cho might have chosen her friends a it more
carefully; it was small consolation that the last he had heard, Marietta was still up in the hospital
wing and Madam Pomfrey had not een ale to make the slightest improvement to her pimples.
"She’s a lovely person really," said Cho. "She just made a mistake -"
Harry looked at her incredulously.
"A lovely person who made a mistake? She sold us all out, including you!"
"Well... we all got away, didn’t we?" said Cho pleadingly. "You know, her mum works for the
Ministry, it’s really difficult for her -"
"Ron’s dad works for the Ministry too!" Harry said furiously. "And in case you hadn’t noticed, he hasn’t got sneak written across his face -"
"That was a really horrile trick of Hermione Granger’s," said Cho fiercely. "She should have
told us she’d jinxed that list -"
"I think it was a rilliant idea," said Harry coldly. Cho flushed and her eyes grew righter.
"Oh yes, I forgot - of course, if it was darling Hermione’s idea -"
"Don’t start crying again," said Harry warningly.
"I wasn’t going to!" she shouted.
"Yeah... well... good," he said. "I’ve got enough to cope with at the moment."
"Go and cope with it then!" Cho said furiously, turning on her heel and stalking off.
Fuming, Harry descended the stairs to Snape’s dungeon and, though he knew from experience
how much easier it would e for Snape to penetrate his mind if he arrived angry and resentful, he
succeeded in nothing ut thinking of a few more things he should have said to Cho aout
Marietta efore reaching the dungeon door.
"You’re late, Potter," said Snape coldly, as Harry closed the door ehind him.
Snape was standing with his ack to Harry, removing, as usual, certain of his thoughts and
placing them carefully in Dumledores Pensieve. He dropped the last silvery strand into the
stone asin and turned to face Harry.
"So," he said. "Have you een practicing?"
"Yes," Harry lied, looking carefully at one of the legs of Snape’s desk.
"Well, we’ll soon find out, won’t we?" said Snape smoothly. "Wand out, Potter."
Harry moved into his usual position, facing Snape with the desk etween them. His heart was
pumping fast with anger at Cho and anxiety aout how much Snape was aout to extract from
his mind.
"On the count of three then," said Snape lazily. "One - two -"
Snape’s office door anged open and Draco Malfoy sped in.
"Professor Snape, sir - oh - sorry -"
Malfoy was looking at Snape and Harry in some surprise.
"It’s all right, Draco," said Snape, lowering his w and. "Potter is here for a little remedial Potions."
Harry had not seen Malfoy look so gleeful since Umridge had turned up to inspect Hagrid.
"I didn’t know," he said, leering at Harry, who knew his face was urning. He would have given
a great deal to e ale to shout the truth at Malfoy - or, even etter, to hit him with a good curse.
"Well, Draco, what is it?" asked Snape.
"It’s Professor Umridge, sir - she needs your help," said Malfoy. "They’ve found Montague, sir, he’s turned up jammed inside a toilet on the fourth floor."
"How did he get in there?" demanded Snape.
"I don’t know, sir, he’s a it confused."
"Very well, very well. Potter," said Snape, "we shall resume this lesson tomorrow evening."
He turned and swept from his office. Malfoy mouthed, "Remedial Potions?" at Harry ehind
Snape’s ack efore following him.
Seething, Harry replaced his wand inside his roes and made to leave the room. At least he had
twenty-four more hours in which to practice; he knew he ought to feel grateful for the narrow
escape, though it was hard that it came at the expense of Malfoy telling the whole school that he
needed remedial Potions.
He was at the office door when he saw it: a patch of shivering light dancing on the doorframe.
He stopped, and stood looking at it, reminded of something... then he rememered: it was a little
like the lights he had seen in his dream last night, the lights in the second room he had walked
through on his journey through the Department of Mysteries.
He turned around. The light was coming from the Pensieve sitting on Snape’s desk. The silverwhite contents were eing and swirling within. Snape’s thoughts... things he did not want
Harry to see if he roke through Snape’s Defenses accidentally...
Harry gazed at the Pensieve, curiosity welling inside him... what was it that Snape was so keen
to hide from Harry?
The silvery lights shivered on the wall... Harry took two steps towards the desk, thinking hard.
Could it possily e information aout the Department of Mysteries that Snape was determined
to keep from him?
Harry looked over his shoulder, his heart now pumping harder and faster than ever. How long
would it take Snape to release Montague from the toilet? Would he come straight ack to his
office afterwards, or accompany Montague to the hospital wing? Surely the latter... Montague
was Captain of the Slytherin Quidditch team, Snape would want to make sure he was all right.
Harry walked the remaining few feet to the Pensieve and stood over it, gazing into its depths. He
hesitated, listening, then pulled out his wand again. The office and the corridor eyond were
completely silent. He gave the contents of the Pensieve a small prod with the end of his wand.
The silvery stuff within egan to swirl very fast. Harry leaned forwards over it and saw that it
had ecome transparent. He was, once again, looking down into a room as though through a
circular window in the ceiling... in fact, unless he was much mistaken, he was looking down into
the Great Hall.
His reath was actually fogging the surface of Snape’s thoughts... his rain seemed to e in
limo... it would e insane to do the thing he was so strongly tempted to do... he was
tremling... Snape could e ack at any moment... ut Harry thought of Chos anger, of
Malfoy’s jeering face, and a reckless daring seized him.
He took a great gulp of reath, and plunged his face into the surface of Snape’s thoughts. At
once, the floor of the office lurched, tipping Harry head-first into the Pensieve...
He was falling through cold lackness, spinning furiously as he went, and then -
He was standing in the middle of the Great Hall, ut the four house tales were gone. Instead,
there were more than a hundred smaller tales, all facing the same way, at each of which sat a
student, head ent low, scriling on a roll of parchment. The only sound was the scratching of
quills and the occasional rustle as someody adjusted their parchment. It was clearly exam time.
Sunshine was streaming through the high windows on to the ent heads, which shone chestnut
and copper and gold in the right light. Harry looked around carefully. Snape had to e here
somewhere... this was his memory...
And there he was, at a tale right ehind Harry. Harry stared. Snape-the-teenager had a stringy,
pallid look aout him, like a plant kept in the dark. His hair was lank and greasy and was
flopping on to the tale, his hooked nose arely half an inch from the surface of the parchment as
he scriled. Harry moved around ehind Snape and read the heading of the examination paper:
DEFENSE AGAINST THE DARK ARTS - ORDINARY WIZARDING LEVEL.
So Snape had to e fifteen or sixteen, around Harry’s own age. His hand was flying across the
parchment; he had written at least a foot more than his closest neighors, and yet his writing
was minuscule and cramped.
"Five more minutes!"
The voice made Harry jump. Turning, he saw the top of Professor Flitwick’s head moving
etween the desks a short distance away. Professor Flitwick was walking past a oy with untidy
lack hair... very untidy lack hair...
Harry moved so quickly that, had he een solid, he would have knocked desks flying. Instead he
seemed to slide, dreamlike, across two aisles and up a third. The ack of the lack-haired oy’s
head drew nearer and... he was straightening up now, putting down his quill, pulling his roll of
parchment towards him so as to reread what he had written...
Harry stopped in front of the desk and gazed down at his fifteen-year-old father.
Excitement exploded in the pit of his stomach: it was as though he was looking at himself ut
with delierate mistakes. James’s eyes were hazel, his nose was slightly longer than Harry’s and
there was no scar on his forehead, ut they had the same thin face, same mouth, same eyerows;
James’s hair stuck up at the ack exactly as Harry’s did, his hands could have een Harry’s and
Harry could tell that, when James stood up, they would e within an inch of each other in height.
James yawned hugely and rumpled up his hair, making it even messier than it had een. Then,
with a glance towards Professor Flitwick, he turned in his seat and grinned at a oy sitting four
seats ehind him.
With another shock of excitement, Harry saw Sirius give James the thums-up. Sirius was
lounging in his chair at his ease, tilting it ack on two legs. He was very good-looking; his dark
hair fell into his eyes with a sort of casual elegance neither James’s nor Harry’s could ever have
achieved, and a girl sitting ehind him was eyeing him hopefully, though he didn’t seem to have
noticed. And two seats along from this girl - Harry’s stomach gave another pleasurale squirm -
was Remus Lupin. He looked rather pale and peaky (was the full moon approaching?) and was
asored in the exam: as he reread his answers, he scratched his chin with the end of his quill,
frowning slightly.
So that meant Wormtail had to e around here somewhere, too... and sure enough, Harry spotted
him within seconds: a small, mousy-haired oy with a pointed nose. Wormtail looked anxious;
he was chewing his fingernails, staring down at his paper, scuffing the ground with his toes.
Every now and then he glanced hopefully at his neighors paper. Harry stared at Wormtail for a
moment, then ack at James, who was now doodling on a it of scrap parchment. He had drawn
a Snitch and was now tracing the letters L.E. What did they stand for?
"Quills down, please!" squeaked Professor Flitwick. "That means you too, Steins! Please
remain seated while I collect your parchment! Accio!"
Over a hundred rolls of parchment zoomed into the air and into Professor Flitwick’s outstretched
arms, knocking him ackwards off his feet. Several people laughed. A couple of students at the
front desks got up, took hold of Professor Flitwick eneath the elows and lifted him ack on to
his feet.
"Thank you... thank you," panted Professor Flitwick. "Very well, everyody, you’re free to go!"
Harry looked down at his father, who had hastily crossed out the L.E. he had een
emellishing, jumped to his feet, stuffed his quill and the exam paper into his ag, which he
slung over his ack, and stood waiting for Sirius to join him.
Harry looked around and glimpsed Snape a short way away, moving etween the tales towards
the doors to the Entrance Hall, still asored in his own exam paper. Round-shouldered yet
angular, he walked in a twitchy manner that recalled a spider, and his oily hair was jumping
aout his face.
A gang of chattering girls separated Snape from James, Sirius and Lupin, and y planting
himself in their midst, Harry managed to keep Snape in sight while straining his ears to catch the
voices of James and his friends.
"Did you like question ten, Moony?" asked Sirius as they emerged into the Entrance Hall.
"Loved it," said Lupin riskly. "Give five signs that identify the werewolf. Excellent question."
"D’you think you managed to get all the signs?" said James in tones of mock concern.
"Think I did," said Lupin seriously, as they joined the crowd thronging around the front doors
eager to get out into the sunlit grounds. "One: he’s sitting on my chair. Two: he’s wearing my
clothes. Three: his name’s Remus Lupin."
Wormtail was the only one who didn’t laugh.
"I got the snout shape, the pupils of the eyes and the tufted tail,’ he said anxiously, "ut I couldn’t think what else -"
"How thick are you, Wormtail?" said James impatiently. "You run round with a werewolf once a
month -"
"Keep your voice down," implored Lupin.
Harry looked anxiously ehind him again. Snape remained close y, still uried in his exam
questions - ut this was Snape’s memory and Harry was sure that if Snape chose to wander off in
a different direction once outside in the grounds, he, Harry, would not e ale to follow James
any further. To his intense relief, however, when James and his three friends strode off down the
lawn towards the lake, Snape followed, still poring over the exam paper and apparently with no
fixed idea of where he was going. By keeping a little ahead of him, Harry managed to maintain a
close watch on James and the others.
"Well, I thought that paper was a piece of cake," he heard Sirius say. "I’ll e surprised if I don’t
get ‘Outstanding’ on it at least."
"Me too," said James. He put his hand in his pocket and took out a struggling Golden Snitch.
"Where’d you get that?"
"Nicked it," said James casually. He started playing with the Snitch, allowing it to fly as much as
a foot away efore seizing it again; his reflexes were excellent. Wormtail watched him in awe.
They stopped in the shade of the very same eech tree on the edge of the lake where Harry, Ron
and Hermione had once spent a Sunday finishing their homework, and threw themselves down
on the grass. Harry looked over his shoulder yet again and saw, to his delight, that Snape had
settled himself on the grass in the dense shadow of a clump of ushes. He was as deeply
immersed in the OWL paper as ever, which left Harry free to sit down on the grass etween the
eech and the ushes and watch the foursome under the tree. The sunlight was dazzling on the
smooth surface of the lake, on the ank of which the group of laughing girls who had just left the
Great Hall were sitting, with their shoes and socks off, cooling their feet in the water.
Lupin had pulled out a ook and was reading. Sirius stared around at the students milling over
the grass, looking rather haughty and ored, ut very handsomely so. James was still playing
with the Snitch, letting it zoom further and further away, almost escaping ut always graed at
the last second. Wormtail was watching him with his mouth open. Every time James made a
particularly difficult catch, Wormtail gasped and applauded. After five minutes of this, Harry
wondered why James didn’t tell Wormtail to get a grip on himself, ut James seemed to e
enjoying the attention. Harry noticed that his father had a hait of rumpling up his hair as though
to keep it from getting too tidy, and he also kept looking over at the girls y the water’s edge.
"Put that away, will you," said Sirius finally, as James made a fine catch and Wormtail let out a
cheer, "efore Wormtail wets himself with excitement."
Wormtail turned slightly pink, ut James grinned.
"If it others you," he said, stuffing the Snitch ack in his pocket. Harry had the distinct
impression that Sirius was the only one for whom James would have stopped showing off.
"I’m ored," said Sirius. "Wish it was full moon."
"You might," said Lupin darkly from ehind his ook. "We’ve still got Transfiguration, if you’re
ored you could test me. Here..." and he held out his ook.
But Sirius snorted. "I don’t need to look at that ruish, I know it all."
"This’ll liven you up, Padfoot," said James quietly. "Look who it is..."
Sirius’s head turned. He ecame very still, like a dog that has scented a rait.
"Excellent," he said softly. "Snivellus."
Harry turned to see what Sirius was looking at.
Snape was on his feet again, and was stowing the OWL paper in his ag. As he left the shadows
of the ushes and set off across the grass, Sirius and James stood up.
Lupin and Wormtail remained sitting: Lupin was still staring down at his ook, though his eyes
were not moving and a faint frown line had appeared etween his eyerows; Wormtail was
looking from Sirius and James to Snape with a look of avid anticipation on his face.
"All right, Snivellus?" said James loudly.
Snape reacted so fast it was as though he had een expecting an attack: dropping his ag, he
plunged his hand inside his roes and his wand was halfway into the air when James shouted,
"Expelliarmus!"
Snape’s wand flew twelve feet into the air and fell with a little thud in the grass ehind him.
Sirius let out a ark of laughter.
"Impedimenta!" he said, pointing his wand at Snape, who was knocked off his feet halfway
through a dive towards his own fallen wand.
Students all around had turned to watch. Some of them had got to their feet and were edging
nearer. Some looked apprehensive, others entertained.
Snape lay panting on the ground. James and Sirius advanced on him, wands raised, James
glancing over his shoulder at the girls at the water’s edge as he went. Wormtail was on his feet
now, watching hungrily, edging around Lupin to get a clearer view.
"How’d the exam go, Snivelly?" said James.
"I was watching him, his nose was touching the parchment," said Sirius viciously. "There’ll e
great grease marks all over it, they won’t e ale to read a word."
Several people watching laughed; Snape was clearly unpopular. Wormtail sniggered shrilly.
Snape was trying to get up, ut the jinx was still operating on him; he was struggling, as though
ound y invisile ropes.
"You - wait," he panted, staring up at James with an expression of purest loathing, "you - wait!"
"Wait for what?" said Sirius coolly. "What’re you going to do, Snivelly, wipe your nose on us?"
Snape let out a stream of mixed swear words and hexes, ut with his wand ten feet away nothing
happened.
"Wash out your mouth," said James coldly. "Scourgify!"
Pink soap ules streamed from Snape’s mouth at once; the froth was covering his lips, making
him gag, choking him -
"Leave him ALONE!"
James and Sirius looked round. James’s free hand immediately jumped to his hair.
It was one of the girls from the lake edge. She had thick, dark red hair that fell to her shoulders,
and startlingly green almond-shaped eyes - Harry’s eyes.
Harry’s mother.
"All right, Evans?" said James, and the tone of his voice was suddenly pleasant, deeper, more
mature.
"Leave him alone," Lily repeated. She was looking a t James with every sign of great dislike.
"What’s he done to you?"
"Well," said James, appearing to delierate the point, "it’s more the fact that he exists, if you
know what I mean..."
Many of the surrounding students laughed, Sirius and Wormtail included, ut Lupin, still
apparently intent on his ook, didn’t, and nor did Lily.
"You think you’re funny," she said coldly. "But you’re just an arrogant, ullying toerag, Potter.
Leave him alone."
"I will if you go out with me, Evans," said James quickly. "Go on... go out with me and I’ll never lay a wand on old Snivelly again."
Behind him, the Impediment Jinx was wearing off. Snape was eginning to inch towards his
fallen wand, spitting out soapsuds as he crawled.
"I wouldn’t go out with you if it was a choice etween you and the giant squid," said Lily.
"Bad luck, Prongs," said Sirius riskly, and turned ack to Snape. "Oy!"
But too late; Snape had directed his wand straight at James; there was a flash of light and a gash
appeared on the side of James’s face, spattering his roes with lood. James whirled aout: a
second flash of light later, Snape was hanging upside-down in the air, his roes falling over his
head to reveal skinny, pallid legs and a pair of graying underpants.
Many people in the small crowd cheered; Sirius, James and Wormtail roared with laughter.
Lily, whose furious expression had twitched for an instant as though she was going to smile,
said, "Let him down!"
"Certainly," said James and he jerked his wand upwards; Snape fell into a crumpled heap on the
ground. Disentangling himself from his roes he got quickly to his feet, wand up, ut Sirius said, "Locomotor mortis!" and Snape keeled over again at once, rigid as a oard.
"LEAVE HIM ALONE!" Lily shouted. She had her own wand out now. James and Sirius eyed it warily.
"Ah, Evans, don’t make me hex you," said James earnestly.
"Take the curse off him, then!"
James sighed deeply, then turned to Snape and muttered the counter-curse.
"There you go," he said, as Snape struggled to his feet. "You’re lucky Evans was here, Snivellus
--"
"I don’t need help from filthy little Mudloods like her!"
Lily linked.
"Fine," she said coolly. "I won’t other in future. And I’d wash your pants if I were you, Snivellus."
"Apologize to Evans!" James roared at Snape, his wand pointed threateningly at him.
"I don’t want you to make him apologize," Lily shouted, rounding on James. "You’re as ad as he is."
"What?" yelped James. "I’d NEVER call you a - you-know-what!"
"Messing up your hair ecause you think it looks cool to look like you’ve just got off your
roomstick, showing off with that stupid Snitch, walking down corridors and hexing anyone who
annoys you just ecause you can - I’m surprised your roomstick can get off the ground with that
fat head on it. You make me SICK."
She turned on her heel and hurried away.
"Evans!" James shouted after her. "Hey, EVANS!"
But she didn’t look ack.
"What is it with her?" said James, trying and failing to look as though this was a throwaway
question of no real importance to him.
"Reading etween the lines, I’d say she thinks you’re a it conceited, mate," said Sirius.
"Right," said James, who looked furious now, "right -"
There was another flash of light, and Snape was once again hanging upside-down in the air.
"Who wants to see me take off Snivelly’s pants?"
But whether James really did take off Snapes pants, Harry never found out. A hand had closed
tight over his upper arm, closed with a pincer-like grip. Wincing, Harry looked round to see who
had hold of him, and saw, with a thrill of horror, a fully grown, adult-sized Snape standing right
eside him, white with rage.
"Having fun?"
Harry felt himself rising into the air; the summer’s day evaporated around him; he was floating
upwards through icy lackness, Snape’s hand still tight upon his upper arm. Then, with a
swooping feeling as though he had turned head-over-heels in midair, his feet hit the stone floor
of Snape’s dungeon and he was standing again eside the Pensieve on Snape’s desk in the
shadowy, present-day Potion masters study.
"So," said Snape, gripping Harry’s arm so tightly Harry’s hand was starting to feel num. "So...
een enjoying yourself, Potter?"
"N-no," said Harry, trying to free his arm.
It was scary: Snape’s lips were shaking, his face was white, his teeth were ared.
"Amusing man, your father, wasn’t he?" said Snape, shaking Harry so hard his glasses slipped
down his nose.
"I - didn’t -"
Snape threw Harry from him with all his might. Harry fell hard on to the dungeon floor.
"You will not repeat what you saw to anyody!" Snape ellowed.
"No," said Harry, getting to his feet as far from Snape as he could. "No, of course I w--"
"Get out, get out, I don’t want to see you in this office ever again!"
And as Harry hurtled towards the door, a jar of dead cockroaches exploded over his head. He
wrenched the door open and flew along the corridor, stopping only when he had put three floors
etween himself and Snape. There he leaned against the wall, panting, and ruing his ruised
arm.
He had no desire at all to return to Gryffindor Tower so early, nor to tell Ron and Hermione what
he had just seen. What was making Harry feel so horrified and unhappy was not eing shouted at
or having jars thrown at him; it was that he knew how it felt to e humiliated in the middle of a
circle of onlookers, knew exactly how Snape had felt as his father had taunted him, and that
judging from what he had just seen, his father had een every it as arrogant as Snape had
always told him.
CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
Career Advice
"But why haven’t you got Occlumency lessons any more?" said Hermione, frowning.
"I’ve told you," Harry muttered. "Snape reckons I can carry on y myself now I’ve got the asics."
"So you’ve stopped having funny dreams?" said Hermione skeptically.
"Pretty much," said Harry, not looking at her.
"Well, I don’t think Snape should stop until you’re asolutely sure you can control them!" said
Hermione indignantly. "Harry, I think you should go ack to him and ask -"
"No," said Harry forcefully. "Just drop it, Hermione, okay?"
It was the first day of the Easter holidays and Hermione, as was her custom, had spent a large
part of the day drawing up study schedule for the three of them. Harry and Ron had let her
do it; it was easier than arguing with her and, in any case, they might come in useful.
Ron had een startled to discover there were only six weeks left until their exams.
"How can that come as a shock?" Hermione demanded, as she tapped each little square on Ron’s
schedule with her wand so that it flashed a different color according to its suject.
"I dunno," said Ron, "there’s een a lot going on. "
"Well, there you are," she said, handing him his timetale, "if you follow that you should do
fine."
Ron looked down it gloomily, ut then rightened.
"You’ve given me an evening off every week!"
"That’s for Quidditch practice," said Hermione.
The smile faded from Ron’s face.
"What’s the point?" he said dully. "We’ve got aout as much chance of winning the Quidditch
Cup this year as Dad’s got of ecoming Minister for Magic."
Hermione said nothing; she was looking at Harry, who was staring lankly at the opposite wall
of the common room while Crookshanks pawed at his hand, trying to get his ears scratched.
"What’s wrong, Harry?"
"What?" he said quickly. "Nothing."
He seized his copy of Defensive Magical Theory and pretended to e looking something up in the index. Crookshanks gave him up as a ad jo and slunk away under Hermione’s chair.
"I saw Cho earlier," said Hermione tentatively. "She looked really miserale, too... have you two had a row again?"
"Wha -- oh, yeah, we have," said Harry, seizing gratefully on the excuse.
"What aout?"
"That sneak friend of hers, Marietta," said Harry.
"Yeah, well, I don’t lame you!" said Ron angrily, setting down his revision timetale. "If it
hadn’t een for her..."
Ron went into a rant aout Marietta Edgecome, which Harry found helpful; all he had to do was
look angry, nod and say "Yeah" and "That’s right" whenever Ron drew reath, leaving his mind
free to dwell, ever more miseraly, on what he had seen in the Pensieve.
He felt as though the memory of it was eating him from inside. He had een so sure his parents
were wonderful people that he had never had the slightest difficulty in diselieving the
aspersions Snape cast on his father’s character. Hadn’t people like Hagrid and Sirius told Harry
how wonderful his father had een? (Yeah, well, look what Sirius was like himself, said a
nagging voice inside Harry’s head... he was as ad, wasn’t he?) Yes, he had once overheard
Professor McGonagall saying that his father and Sirius had een troulemakers at school, ut she
had descried them as forerunners of the Weasley twins, and Harry could not imagine Fred and
George dangling someone upside-down for the fun of it... not unless they really loathed them...
perhaps Malfoy, or someody who really deserved it...
Harry tried to make a case for Snape having deserved what he had suffered at James’s hands: ut
hadn’t Lily asked, "What’s he done to you?" And hadn’t James replied, "It’s more the fact that he exists, if you know what I mean." Hadn’t James started it all simply ecause Sirius had said he was ored? Harry rememered Lupin saying ack in Grimmauld Place that Dumledore had
made him prefect in the hope that he would e ale to exercise some control over James and
Sirius... ut in the Pensieve, he had sat there and let it all happen...
Harry kept reminding himself that Lily had intervened; his mother had een decent. Yet, the
memory of the look on her face as she had shouted at James distured him quite as much as
anything else; she had clearly loathed James, and Harry simply could not understand how they
could have ended up married. Once or twice he even wondered whether James had forced her
into it...
For nearly five years the thought of his father had een a source of comfort, of inspiration.
Whenever someone had told him he was like James, he had glowed with pride inside. And
now... now he felt cold and miserale at the thought of him.
The weather grew reezier, righter and warmer as the Easter holidays passed, ut Harry, along
with the rest of the fifth- and seventh-years, was trapped inside, traipsing ack and forth
to the lirary. Harry pretended his ad mood had no other cause ut the approaching exams, and
as his fellow Gryffindors were sick of studying themselves, his excuse went unchallenged.
"Harry, I’m talking to you, can you hear me?"
"Huh?"
He looked round. Ginny Weasley, looking very windswept, had joined him at the lirary tale
where he had een sitting alone. It was late on Sunday evening: Hermione had gone ack to
Gryffindor Tower to review Ancient Runes, and Ron had Quidditch practice.
"Oh, hi," said Harry, pulling his ooks towards him. "How come you’re not at practice?"
"It’s over," said Ginny. "Ron had to take Jack Sloper up to the hospital wing."
"Why?"
"Well, we’re not sure, ut we think he knocked himself out with his own at." She sighed heavily. "Anyway... a package just arrived, it’s only just got through Umridge’s new screening process."
She hoisted a ox wrapped in rown paper on to the tale; it had clearly een unwrapped and
carelessly re-wrapped. There was a scriled note across it in red ink, reading: Inspected and
Passed y the Hogwarts High Inquisitor.
"It’s Easter eggs from Mum," said Ginny. "There’s one for you... there you go."
She handed him a handsome chocolate egg decorated with small, iced Snitches and, according to
the packaging, containing a ag of Fizzing Whizzees. Harry looked at it for a moment, then, to
his horror, felt a lump rise in his throat.
"Are you okay, Harry?" Ginny asked quietly.
"Yeah, I’m fine," said Harry gruffly. The lump in his throat was painful. He did not understand
why an Easter egg should have made him feel like this.
"You seem really down lately," Ginny persisted. "You know, I’m sure if you just talked to Cho..."
"It’s not Cho I want to talk to," said Harry rusquely.
"Who is it, then?" asked Ginny, watching him closely.
"I..."
He glanced around to make quite sure noody was listening. Madam Pince was several shelves
away, stamping out a pile of ooks for a frantic-looking Hannah Aott.
"I wish I could talk to Sirius," he muttered. "But I know I can’t."
Ginny continued to watch him thoughtfully. More to give himself something to do than ecause
he really wanted any, Harry unwrapped his Easter egg, roke off a large it and put it into his
mouth.
"Well," said Ginny slowly, helping herself to a it of egg, too, "if you really want to talk to Sirius, I expect we could think of a way to do it."
"Come on," said Harry dully. "With Umridge policing the fires and reading all our mail?"
"The thing aout growing up with Fred and George," said Ginny thoughtfully, "is that you sort of start thinking anything’s possile if you’ve got enough nerve."
Harry looked at her. Perhaps it was the effect of the chocolate - Lupin had always advised eating
some after encounters with Dementors - or simply ecause he had finally spoken aloud the wish
that had een urning inside him for a week, ut he felt a it more hopeful.
"WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU ARE DOING?"
"Oh damn," whispered Ginny, jumping to her feet. "I forgot -" Madam Pince was swooping down on them, her shriveled face contorted with rage.
"Chocolate in the lirary!" she screamed. "Out - out - OUT!" And whipping out her wand, she
caused Harry’s ooks, ag and ink ottle to chase him and Ginny from the lirary, whacking
them repeatedly over the head as they ran.
As though to underline the importance of their upcoming examinations, a atch of pamphlets,
leaflets and notices concerning various wizarding careers appeared on the tales in Gryffindor
Tower shortly efore the end of the holidays, along with yet another notice on the oard, which
read:
All fifth-years are required to attend a short meeting with their Head of House during the first
week of the summer term to discuss their future careers. Times of individual appointments are
listed elow.
Harry looked down the list and found that he was expected in Professor McGonagall’s office at
half past two on Monday, which would mean missing most of Divination. He and the other fifth years spent a considerale part of the final weekend of the Easter reak reading all the careers information that had een left there for their perusal.
"Well, I don’t fancy Healing," said Ron on the last evening of the holidays. He was immersed in
a leaflet that carried the crossed one-and-wand emlem of St. Mungo’s on its front. "It says here you need at least E at NEWT level in Potions, Herology, Transfiguration, Charms and Defense Against the Dark Arts. I mean... limey... don’t want much, do they?"
"Well, it’s a very responsile jo, isn’t it?" said Hermione asently.
She was poring over a right pink and orange leaflet that was headed, SO YOU THINK YOU’D
LIKE TO WORK IN MUGGLE RELATIONS?
"You don’t seem to need many qualifications to liaise with Muggles; all they want is an OWL in Muggle Studies: ‘Much more important is your enthusiasm, patience and a good sense of fun!’"
"You’d need more than a good sense of fun to liaise with my uncle," said Harry darkly. "Good
sense of when to duck, more like." He was halfway through a pamphlet on wizard anking.
"Listen to this: Are you seeking a challenging career involving travel, adventure and sustantial,
danger-related treasure onuses? Then consider a position with Gringotts Wizarding Bank, who
are currently recruiting Curse-Breakers for thrilling opportunities aroad... They want
Arithmancy, though; you could do it, Hermione!"
"I don’t much fancy anking," said Hermione vaguely, now immersed in: HAVE YOU GOT
WHAT IT TAKES TO TRAIN SECURITY TROLLS?
"Hey," said a voice in Harry’s ear. He looked round; Fred and George had come to join them.
"Ginnys had a word with us aout you," said Fred, stretching out his legs on the tale in front of
them and causing several ooklets on careers with the Ministry of Magic to slide off on to the
floor. "She says you need to talk to Sirius?"
"What?" said Hermione sharply, freezing with her hand halfway towards picking up MAKE A
BANG AT THE DEPARTMENT OF MAGICAL ACCIDENTS AND CATASTROPHES.
"Yeah..." said Harry, trying to sound casual, "yeah, I thought I’d like -"
"Don’t e so ridiculous," said Hermione, straightening up and looking at him as though she could not elieve her eyes. "With Umridge groping around in the fires and frisking all the owls?"
"Well, we think we can find a way around that," said George, stretching and smiling. "It’s a
simple matter of causing a diversion. Now, you might have noticed that we have een rather
quiet on the mayhem front during the Easter holidays?"
"What was the point, we asked ourselves, of disrupting leisure time?" continued Fred. "No point
at all, we answered ourselves. And of course, we’d have messed up people’s studying, too, which
would e the very last thing we’d want to do."
He gave Hermione a sanctimonious little nod. She looked rather taken aack y this
thoughtfulness.
"But its usiness as usual from tomorrow," Fred continued riskly. "And if we’re going to e
causing a it of uproar, why not do it so that Harry can have his chat with Sirius?"
"Yes, ut still," said Hermione, with an air of explaining something very simple to someody
very otuse, "even if you do cause a diversion, how is Harry supposed to talk to him?"
"Umridge’s office," said Harry quietly.
He had een thinking aout it for a fortnight and could come up with no alternative. Umridge
herself had told him that the only fire that was not eing watched was her own.
"Are - you - insane?" said Hermione in a hushed voice.
Ron had lowered his leaflet on jos in the Cultivated Fungus Trade and was watching the
conversation warily.
"I don’t think so," said Harry, shrugging.
"And how are you going to get in there in the first place?"
Harry was ready for this question.
"Sirius’s knife," he said.
"Excuse me?"
"Christmas efore last Sirius gave me a knife that’ll open any lock," said Harry. "So even if she’s ewitched the door so Alohomora won’t work, which I et she has -"
"What do you think aout this?" Hermione demanded of Ron, and Harry was reminded
irresistily of Mrs. Weasley appealing to her husand during Harry’s first dinner in Grimmauld
Place.
"I dunno," said Ron, looking alarmed at eing asked to give an opinion. "If Harry wants to do it,
it’s up to him, isn’t it?"
"Spoken like a true friend and Weasley," said Fred, clapping Ron hard on the ack. "Right, then.
We’re thinking of doing it tomorrow, just after lessons, ecause it should cause maximum impact
if everyody’s in the corridors - Harry, we’ll set it off in the east wing somewhere, draw her right
away from her own office -- I reckon we should e ale to guarantee you, what, twenty
minutes?" he said, looking at George.
"Easy," said George.
"What sort of diversion is it?" asked Ron.
"You’ll see, little ro’," said Fred, as he and George got up again. "At least, you will if you trot
along to Gregory the Smarmy’s corridor round aout five o’clock tomorrow."
Harry awoke very early the next day, feeling almost as anxious as he had done on the morning of
his disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic. It was not only the prospect of reaking into
Umridge’s office and using her fire to speak to Sirius that was making him feel nervous, though
that was certainly ad enough; today also happened to e the first time Harry would e in close
proximity to Snape since Snape had thrown him out of his office.
After lying in ed for a while thinking aout the day ahead, Harry got up very quietly and moved
across to the window eside Neville’s ed, and stared out on a truly glorious morning. The sky
was a clear, misty, opalescent lue. Directly ahead of him, Harry could see the towering eech
tree elow which his father had once tormented Snape. He was not sure what Sirius could
possily say to him that would make up for what he had seen in the Pensieve, ut he was
desperate to hear Sirius’s own account of what had happened, to know of any mitigating factors
there might have een, any excuse at all for his father’s ehavior...
Something caught Harry’s attention: movement on the edge of the Foridden Forest. Harry
squinted into the sun and saw Hagrid emerging from etween the trees. He seemed to e limping.
As Harry watched, Hagrid staggered to the door of his cain and disappeared inside it. Harry
watched the cain for several minutes. Hagrid did not emerge again, ut smoke furled from the
chimney, so Hagrid could not e so adly injured that he was unequal to stoking the fire.
Harry turned away from the window, headed ack to his trunk and started to dress.
With the prospect of forcing entry into Umridge’s office ahead, Harry had never expected the
day to e a restful one, ut he had not reckoned on Hermione’s almost continual attempts to
dissuade him from what he was planning to do at five o’clock. For the first time ever, she was at
least as inattentive to Professor Binns in History of Magic as Harry and Ron were, keeping up a
stream of whispered admonitions that Harry tried very hard to ignore.
"... and if she does catch you there, apart from eing expelled, she’ll e ale to guess you’ve
een talking to Snuffles and this time I expect she’ll force you to drink Veritaserum and answer
her questions..."
"Hermione," said Ron in a low and indignant voice, "are you going to stop telling Harry off and
listen to Binns, or am I going to have to take my own notes?"
"You take notes for a change, it won’t kill you!"
By the time they reached the dungeons, neither Harry nor Ron was speaking to Hermione.
Undeterred, she took advantage of their silence to maintain an uninterrupted flow of dire
warnings, all uttered under her reath in a vehement hiss that caused Seamus to waste five whole
minutes checking his cauldron for leaks.
Snape, meanwhile, seemed to have decided to act as though Harry were invisile. Harry was, of
course, well-used to this tactic, as it was one of Uncle Vernon’s favorites, and on the whole was
grateful he had to suffer nothing worse. In fact, compared to what he usually had to endure from
Snape in the way of taunts and snide remarks, he found the new approach something of an
improvement, and was pleased to find that when left well alone, he was ale to concoct an
Invigoration Draught quite easily. At the end of the lesson he scooped some of the potion into a
flask, corked it and took it up to Snape’s desk for marking, feeling that he might at last have
scraped an E.
He had just turned away when he heard a smashing noise. Malfoy gave a gleeful yell of laughter.
Harry whipped around. His potion sample lay in pieces on the floor and Snape was surveying
him with a look of gloating pleasure.
"Whoops," he said softly. "Another zero, then, Potter."
Harry was too incensed to speak. He strode ack to his cauldron, intending to fill another flask
and force Snape to mark it, ut saw to his horror that the rest of the contents had vanished.
"I’m sorry!" said Hermione, with her hands over her mouth. "I’m really sorry, Harry. I thought
you’d finished, so I cleared up!"
Harry could not ring himself to answer. When the ell rang, he hurried out of the dungeon
without a ackwards glance, and made sure that he found himself a seat etween Neville and
Seamus for lunch so that Hermione could not start nagging him again aout using Umridge’s
office.
He was in such a ad mood y the time he got to Divination that he had quite forgotten his
careers appointment with Professor McGonagall, rememering it only when Ron asked him why
he wasn’t in her office. He hurtled ack upstairs and arrived out of reath, only a few minutes
late.
"Sorry, Professor," he panted, as he closed the door. "I forgot."
"No matter, Potter," she said riskly, ut as she spoke, someody else sniffed from the corner.
Harry looked round.
Professor Umridge was sitting there, a clipoard on her knee, a fussy little pie-frill around her
neck and a small, horrily smug smile on her face.
"Sit down, Potter," said Professor McGonagall tersely. Her hands shook slightly as she shuffled
the many pamphlets littering her desk.
Harry sat down with his ack to Umridge and did his est to pretend he could not hear the
scratching of her quill on her clipoard.
"Well, Potter, this meeting is to talk over any career ideas you might have, and to help you
decide which sujects you should continue into the sixth and seventh years," said Professor
McGonagall. "Have you had any thoughts aout what you would like to do after you leave
Hogwarts?"
"Er -" said Harry.
He was finding the scratching noise from ehind him very distracting.
"Yes?" Professor McGonagall prompted Harry.
"Well, I thought of, maye, eing an Auror," Harry mumled.
"You’d need top grades for that," said Professor McGonagall, extracting a small, dark leaflet
from under the mass on her desk and opening it. "They ask for a minimum of five NEWTs, and
nothing under ‘Exceeds Expectations’ grade, I see. Then you would e required to undergo a stringent series of character and aptitude tests at the Auror office. It’s a difficult career path, Potter, they only take the est. In fact, I don’t think anyody has een taken on in the last three years."
At this moment, Professor Umridge gave a very tiny cough, as though she was trying to see
how quietly she could do it. Professor McGonagall ignored her.
"You’ll want to know which sujects you ought to take, I suppose?" she went on, talking a little
louder than efore.
"Yes," said Harry. "Defense Against the Dark Arts, I suppose?"
"Naturally," said Professor McGonagall crisply. "I would also advise -"
Professor Umridge gave another cough, a little more audile this time. Professor McGonagall
closed her eyes for a moment, opened them again, and continued as though nothing had
happened.
"I would also advise Transfiguration, ecause Aurors frequently need to Transfigure or
Untransfigure in their work. And I ought to tell you now, Potter, that I do not accept students into
my NEWT classes unless they have achieved ‘Exceeds Expectations’ or higher at Ordinary Wizarding Level. I’d say you’re averaging ‘Acceptale’ at the moment, so you’ll need to put in some good hard work efore the exams to stand a chance of continuing. Then you ought to do Charms, always useful, and Potions. Yes, Potter, Potions," she added, with the merest flicker of a smile. "Poisons and antidotes are essential study for Aurors. And I must tell you that Professor Snape asolutely refuses to take students who get anything other than ‘Outstanding’ in their OWLs, so -"
Professor Umridge gave her most pronounced cough yet.
"May I offer you a cough drop, Dolores?" Professor McGonagall asked curtly, without looking at Professor Umridge.
"Oh, no, thank you very much," said Umridge, with that simpering laugh Harry hated so much.
"I just wondered whether I could make the teensiest interruption, Minerva?"
"I daresay you’ll find you can," said Professor McGonagall through tightly gritted teeth.
"I was just wondering whether Mr. Potter has quite the temperament for an Auror?" said Professor Umridge sweetly.
"Were you?" said Professor McGonagall haughtily. "Well, Potter," she continued, as though there had een no interruption, "if you are serious in this amition, I would advise you to concentrate hard on ringing your Transfiguration and Potions up to scratch. I see Professor Flitwick has graded you etween ‘Acceptale’ and ‘Exceeds Expectations’ for the last two years, so your Charmwork seems satisfactory. As for Defense Against the Dark Arts, your marks have een generally high, Professor Lupin in particular thought you - are you quite sure you wouldn’t like a cough drop, Dolores!"
"Oh, no need, thank you, Minerva" simpered Professor Umridge, who had just coughed her
loudest yet. "I was just concerned that you might not have Harrys most recent Defense Against
the Dark Arts marks in front of you. I’m quite sure I slipped in a note."
"What, this thing?" said Professor McGonagall in a tone of revulsion, as she pulled a sheet of
pink parchment from etween the leaves of Harry’s folder. She glanced down it, her eyerows
slightly raised, then placed it ack into the folder without comment.
"Yes, as I was saying, Potter, Professor Lupin thought you showed a pronounced aptitude for the
suject, and oviously for an Auror -"
"Did you not understand my note, Minerva?" asked Professor Umridge in honeyed tones, quite
forgetting to cough.
"Of course I understood it," said Professor McGonagall, her teeth clenched so tightly the words
came out a little muffled.
"Well, then, I am confused... I’m afraid I don’t quite understand how you can give Mr. Potter
false hope that -"
"False hope?" repeated Professor McGonagall, still refusing to look round at Professor
Umridge. "He has achieved high marks in all his Defense Against the Dark Arts tests -"
"I’m terrily sorry to have to contradict you, Minerva, ut as you will see from my note, Harry
has een achieving very poor results in his classes with me -"
"I should have made my meaning plainer," said Professor McGonagall, turning at last to look
Umridge directly in the eyes. "He has achieved high marks in all Defense Against the Dark Arts
tests set y a competent teacher."
Professor Umridge’s smile vanished as suddenly as a light ul lowing. She sat ack in her
chair, turned a sheet on her clipoard and egan scriling very fast indeed, her ulging eyes
rolling from side to side. Professor McGonagall turned ack to Harry, her thin nostrils flared, her
eyes urning.
"Any questions, Potter?"
"Yes," said Harry. "What sort of character and aptitude tests do the Ministry do on you, if you get enough NEWTs?"
"Well, you’ll need to demonstrate the aility to react well to pressure and so forth," said
Professor McGonagall, "perseverance and dedication, ecause Auror training takes a further
three years, not to mention very high skills in practical Defense. It will mean a lot more study
even after you’ve left school, so unless you’re prepared to -"
"I think you’ll also find," said Umridge, her voice very cold now, "that the Ministry looks into
the records of those applying to e Aurors. Their criminal records."
"- unless you’re prepared to take even more exams after Hogwarts, you should really look at
another -"
"Which means that this oy has as much chance of ecoming an Auror as Dumledore has of
ever returning to this school."
"A very good chance, then," said Professor McGonagall.
"Potter has a criminal record," said Umridge loudly.
"Potter has een cleared of all charges," said McGonagall, even more loudly.
Professor Umridge stood up. She was so short that this did not make a great deal of difference,
ut her fussy, simpering demeanour had given place to a hard fury that made her road, flay
face look oddly sinister.
"Potter has no chance whatsoever of ecoming an Auror!"
Professor McGonagall got to her feet, too, and in her case this was a much more impressive
move; she towered over Professor Umridge.
"Potter," she said in ringing tones, "I will assist you to ecome an Auror if it is the last thing I do! If I have to coach you nightly, I will make sure you achieve the required results!"
"The Minister for Magic will never employ Harry Potter!" said Umridge, her voice rising
furiously.
"There may well e a new Minister for Magic y the time Potter is ready to join!" shouted
Professor McGonagall.
"Aha!" shrieked Professor Umridge, pointing a stuy finger at McGonagall. "Yes! Yes, yes,
yes! Of course! That’s what you want, isn’t it, Minerva McGonagall? You want Cornelius Fudge
replaced y Alus Dumledore! You think you’ll e where I am, don’t you: Senior
Undersecretary to the Minister and Headmistress to oot!"
"You are raving," said Professor McGonagall, superly disdainful. "Potter, that concludes our
careers consultation."
Harry swung his ag over his shoulder and hurried out of the room, not daring to look at
Professor Umridge. He could hear her and Professor McGonagall continuing to shout at each
other all the way ack along the corridor.
Professor Umridge was still reathing as though she had just run a race when she strode into
their Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson that afternoon.
"I hope you’ve thought etter of what you were planning to do, Harry," Hermione whispered, the moment they had opened their ooks to ‘Chapter Thirty-four, Non-Retaliation and Negotiation’.
"Umridge looks like she’s in a really ad mood already..."
Every now and then Umridge shot glowering looks at Harry, who kept his head down, staring
at Defensive Magical Theory, his eyes unfocused, thinking...
He could just imagine Professor McGonagall’s reaction if he was caught trespassing in Professor
Umridge’s office mere hours after she had vouched for him... there was nothing to stop him
simply going ack to Gryffindor Tower and hoping that some time during the next summer
holidays he would have a chance to ask Sirius aout the scene he had witnessed in the
Pensieve... nothing, except that the thought of taking this sensile course of action made him
feel as though a lead weight had dropped into his stomach... and then there was the matter of
Fred and George, whose diversion was already planned, not to mention the knife Sirius had
given him, which was currently residing in his schoolag along with his father’s old Invisiility
Cloak.
But the fact remained that if he was caught...
"Dumledore sacrificed himself to keep you in school, Harry!" whispered Hermione, raising her
ook to hide her face from Umridge. "And if you get thrown out today it will all have een for
nothing!"
He could aandon the plan and simply learn to live with the memory of what his father had done
on a summer’s day more than twenty years ago...
And then he rememered Sirius in the fire upstairs in the Gryffindor common room...
You’re less like your father than I thought... the risk would’ve een what made it fun for
James...
But did he want to e like his father any more?
"Harry, don’t do it, please don’t do it!" Hermione said in anguished tones as the ell rang at the
end of the class.
He did not answer; he did not know what to do.
Ron seemed determined to give neither his opinion nor his advice; he would not look at Harry,
though when Hermione opened her mouth to try dissuading Harry some more, he said in a low
voice, "Give it a rest, okay? He can make up his own mind."
Harrys heart eat very fast as he left the classroom. He was halfway along the corridor outside
when he heard the unmistakale sounds of a diversion going off in the distance. There were
screams and yells revererating from somewhere aove them; people exiting the classrooms all
around Harry were stopping in their tracks and looking up at the ceiling fearfully -
Umridge came pelting out of her classroom as fast as her short legs would carry her. Pulling out
her wand, she hurried off in the opposite direction: it was now or never.
"Harry - please!" Hermione pleaded weakly.
But he had made up his mind; hitching his ag more securely on to his shoulder, he set off at a
run, weaving in and out of students now hurrying in the opposite direction to see what all the
fuss was aout in the east wing.
Harry reached the corridor to Umridge’s office and found it deserted. Dashing ehind a large
suit of armor whose helmet creaked around to watch him, he pulled open his ag, seized Sirius’s knife and donned the Invisiility Cloak. He then crept slowly and carefully ack out from ehind the suit of armor and along the corridor until he reached Umridge’s door.
He inserted the lade of the magical knife into the crack around it and moved it gently up and
down, then withdrew it. There was a tiny click, and the door swung open. He ducked inside the
office, closed the door quickly ehind him and looked around.
Nothing was moving except the horrile kittens that were still frolicking on the wall plates aove
the confiscated roomsticks.
Harry pulled off his Cloak and, striding over to the fireplace, found what he was looking for
within seconds: a small ox containing glittering Floo powder.
He crouched down in front of the empty grate, his hands shaking. He had never done this efore,
though he thought he knew how it must work. Sticking his head into the fireplace, he took a large
pinch of powder and dropped it on to the logs stacked neatly eneath him. They exploded at once
into emerald green flames.
"Numer twelve, Grimmauld Place!" Harry said loudly and clearly.
It was one of the most curious sensations he had ever experienced. He had traveled y Floo
powder efore, of course, ut then it had een his entire ody that had spun around and around in
the flames through the network of wizarding fireplaces that stretched over the country. This time,
his knees remained firm upon the cold floor of Umridge’s office, and only his head hurtled
through the emerald fire...
And then, as aruptly as it had egun, the spinning stopped. Feeling rather sick and as though he
were wearing an exceptionally hot muffler around his head, Harry opened his eyes to find that he
was looking up out of the kitchen fireplace at the long, wooden tale, where a man sat poring
over a piece of parchment.
"Sirius?"
The man jumped and looked around. It was not Sirius, ut Lupin.
"Harry!" he said, looking thoroughly shocked. "What are you - what’s happened, is everything all right?"
"Yeah," said Harry. "I just wondered -- I mean, I just fancied a - a chat with Sirius."
"I’ll call him," said Lupin, getting to his feet, still looking perplexed, "he went upstairs to look for Kreacher, he seems to e hiding in the attic again..."
And Harry saw Lupin hurry out of the kitchen. Now he was left with nothing to look at ut the
chair and tale legs. He wondered why Sirius had never mentioned how very uncomfortale it
was to speak out of the fire; his knees were already ojecting painfully to their prolonged contact
with Umridge’s hard stone floor.
Lupin returned with Sirius at his heels moments later.
"What is it?" said Sirius urgently, sweeping his long dark hair out of his eyes and dropping to the
ground in front of the fire, so that he and Harry were on a level. Lupin knelt down too, looking
very concerned. "Are you all right? Do you need help?"
"No," said Harry, "it’s nothing like that... I just wanted to talk... aout my dad."
They exchanged a look of great surprise, ut Harry did not have time to feel awkward or
emarrassed; his knees were ecoming sorer y the second and he guessed five minutes had
already passed from the start of the diversion; George had only guaranteed him twenty. He
therefore plunged immediately into the story of what he had seen in the Pensieve.
When he had finished, neither Sirius nor Lupin spoke for a moment. Then Lupin said quietly, "I
wouldn’t like you to judge your father on what you saw there, Harry. He was only fifteen -"
"I’m fifteen!" said Harry heatedly.
"Look, Harry" said Sirius placatingly, "James and Snape hated each other from the moment they
set eyes on each other, it was just one of those things, you can understand that, can’t you? I think
James was everything Snape wanted to e - he was popular, he was good at Quidditch - good at
pretty much everything. And Snape was just this little oddall who was up to his eyes in the
Dark Arts, and James - whatever else he may have appeared to you, Harry - always hated the
Dark Arts."
"Yeah," said Harry, "ut he just attacked Snape for no good reason, just ecause - well, just
ecause you said you were ored," he finished, with a slightly apologetic note in his voice.
"I’m not proud of it," said Sirius quickly.
Lupin looked sideways at Sirius, then said, "Look, Harry, what you’ve got to understand is that
your father and Sirius were the est in the school at whatever they did - everyone thought they
were the height of cool - if they sometimes got a it carried away -"
"If we were sometimes arrogant little erks, you mean," said Sirius.
Lupin smiled.
"He kept messing up his hair," said Harry in a pained voice.
Sirius and Lupin laughed.
"I’d forgotten he used to do that," said Sirius affectionately.
"Was he playing with the Snitch?" said Lupin eagerly.
"Yeah," said Harry, watching uncomprehendingly as Sirius and Lupin eamed reminiscently.
"Well... I thought he was a it of an idiot."
"Of course he was a it of an idiot!" said Sirius racingly, "we were all idiots! Well - not Moony
so much," he said fairly, looking at Lupin.
But Lupin shook his head. "Did I ever tell you to lay off Snape?" he said. "Did I ever have the
guts to tell you I thought you were out of order?"
"Yeah, well," said Sirius, "you made us feel ashamed of ourselves sometimes... that was
something..."
"And," said Harry doggedly, determined to say everything that was on his mind now he was here, "he kept looking over at the girls y the lake, hoping they were watching him!"
"Oh, well, he always made a fool of himself whenever Lily was around," said Sirius, shrugging,
"he couldn’t stop himself showing off whenever he got near her."
"How come she married him?" Harry asked miseraly. "She hated him!"
"Nah, she didn’t," said Sirius.
"She started going out with him in seventh year," said Lupin.
"Once James had deflated his head a it," said Sirius.
"And stopped hexing people just for the fun of it," said Lupin.
"Even Snape?" said Harry.
"Well," said Lupin slowly, "Snape was a special case I mean, he never lost an opportunity to
curse James so you couldn’t really expect James to take that lying down, could you?"
"And my mum was okay with that?"
"She didn’t know too much aout it, to tell you the truth," said Sirius. "I mean, James didn’t take
Snape on dates with her and jinx him in front of her, did he?"
Sirius frowned at Harry, who was still looking unconvinced.
"Look," he said, "your father was the est friend I ever had and he was a good person. A lot of
people are idiots at the age of fifteen. He grew out of it."
"Yeah, okay," said Harry heavily. "I just never thought I’d feel sorry for Snape."
"Now you mention it," said Lupin, a faint crease etween his eyerows, "how did Snape react
when he found you’d seen all this?"
"He told me he’d never teach me Occlumency again," said Harry indifferently, "like that’s a ig
disappoint--"
"He WHAT?" shouted Sirius, causing Harry to jump and inhale a mouthful of ashes.
"Are you serious, Harry?" said Lupin quickly. "He’s stopped giving you lessons?"
"Yeah," said Harry, surprised at what he considered a great over-reaction. "But it’s okay, I don’t
care, it’s a it of a relief to tell you the -"
"I’m coming up there to have a word with Snape!" said Sirius forcefully, and he actually made to stand up, ut Lupin wrenched him ack down again.
"If anyone’s going to tell Snape it will e me!" he said firmly. "But Harry, first of all, you’re to
go ack to Snape and tell him that on no account is he to stop giving you lessons -- when
Dumledore hears -"
"I can’t tell him that, he’d kill me!" said Harry, outraged. "You didn’t see him when we got out of the Pensieve."
"Harry there is nothing so important as you learning Occlumency!" said Lupin sternly. "Do you
understand me? Nothing!"
"Okay, okay," said Harry, thoroughly discomposed, not to mention annoyed. "I’ll... I’ll try and say something to him... ut it won’t e-"
He fell silent. He could hear distant footsteps.
"Is that Kreacher coming downstairs?"
"No," said Sirius, glancing ehind him. "It must e someody your end." Harrys heart skipped
several eats.
"I’d etter go!" he said hastily and pulled his head ackwards out of the Grimmauld Place fire. For a moment his head seemed to e revolving on his shoulders, then he found himself kneeling in front of Umridge’s fire with it firmly ack on and watching the emerald flames flicker and die.
"Quickly, quickly!" he heard a wheezy voice mutter right outside the office door. "Ah, she’s left
it open -"
Harry dived for the Invisiility Cloak and had just managed to pull it ack over himself when
Filch urst into the office. He looked asolutely delighted aout something and was talking to
himself feverishly as he crossed the room, pulled open a drawer in Umridge’s desk and egan
rifling through the papers inside it.
"Approval for Whipping... Approval for Whipping... I can do it at last... they’ve had it coming
to them for years..."
He pulled out a piece of parchment, kissed it, then shuffled rapidly ack out of the door,
clutching it to his chest.
Harry leapt to his feet and, making sure he had his ag and that the Invisiility Cloak was
completely covering him, he wrenched open the door and hurried out of the office after Filch,
who was holing along faster than Harry had ever seen him go.
One landing down from Umridge’s office, Harry thought it was safe to ecome visile again.
He pulled off the Cloak, shoved it in his ag and hurried onwards. There was a great deal of
shouting and movement coming from the Entrance Hall. He ran down the marle staircase and
found what looked like most of the school assemled there.
It was just like the night when Trelawney had een sacked. Students were standing all around the
walls in a great ring (some of them, Harry noticed, covered in a sustance that looked very like
Stinksap); teachers and ghosts were also in the crowd. Prominent among the onlookers were
memers of the Inquisitorial Squad, who were all looking exceptionally pleased with themselves,
and Peeves, who was oing overhead, gazed down at Fred and George who stood in the
middle of the floor with the unmistakale look of two people who had just een cornered.
"So!" said Umridge triumphantly. Harry realized she was standing just a few stairs in front of
him, once more looking down upon her prey. "So - you think it amusing to turn a school corridor
into a swamp, do you?"
"Pretty amusing, yeah," said Fred, looking up at her without the slightest sign of fear.
Filch elowed his way closer to Umridge, almost crying with happiness.
"I’ve got the form, Headmistress," he said hoarsely, waving the piece of parchment Harry had
just seen him take from her desk. "I’ve got the form and I’ve got the whips waiting... oh, let me
do it now..."
"Very good, Argus," she said. "You two," she went on, gazing down at Fred and George, "are
aout to learn what happens to wrongdoers in my school."
"You know what?" said Fred. "I don’t think we are."
He turned to his twin.
"George," said Fred, "I think we’ve outgrown full-time education."
"Yeah, I’ve een feeling that way myself," said George lightly.
"Time to test our talents in the real world, d’you reckon?" asked Fred.
"Definitely," said George.
And efore Umridge could say a word, they raised their wands and said together:
"Accio rooms!"
Harry heard a loud crash somewhere in the distance. Looking to his left, he ducked just in time.
Fred and George’s roomsticks, one still trailing the heavy chain and iron peg with which
Umridge had fastened them to the wall, were hurtling along the corridor towards their owners;
they turned left, streaked down the stairs and stopped sharply in front of the twins, the chain
clattering loudly on the flagged stone floor.
"We won’t e seeing you," Fred told Professor Umridge, swinging his leg over his roomstick.
"Yeah, don’t other to keep in touch," said George, mounting his own.
Fred looked around at the assemled students, at the silent, watchful crowd.
"If anyone fancies uying a Portale Swamp, as demonstrated upstairs, come to numer ninety-three, Diagon Alley - Weasleys’ Wizarding Wheezes," he said in a loud voice. "Our new
premises!"
"Special discounts to Hogwarts students who swear they’re going to use our products to get rid of this old at," added George, pointing at Professor Umridge.
"STOP THEM!" shrieked Umridge, ut it was too late. As the Inquisitorial Squad closed in,
Fred and George kicked off from the floor, shooting fifteen feet into the air, the iron peg
swinging dangerously elow. Fred looked across the hall at the poltergeist oing on his level
aove the crowd.
"Give her hell from us, Peeves."
And Peeves, who Harry had never seen take an order from a student efore, swept his elled hat
from his head and sprang to a salute as Fred and George wheeled aout to tumultuous applause
from the students elow and sped out of the open front doors into the glorious sunset.
CHAPTER THIRTY
Grawp
The story of Fred and George’s flight to freedom was retold so often over the next few days that
Harry could tell it would soon ecome the stuff of Hogwarts legend: within a week, even those
who had een eye-witnesses were half-convinced they had seen the twins dive-om Umridge
on their rooms and pelt her with Dungoms efore zooming out of the doors. In the immediate
aftermath of their departure there was a great wave of talk aout copying them. Harry frequently
heard students saying things like, "Honestly some days I just feel like jumping on my room and
leaving this place," or else, "One more lesson like that and I might just do a Weasley."
Fred and George had made sure noody was likely to forget them too soon. For one thing, they
had not left instructions on how to remove the swamp that now filled the corridor on the fifth
floor of the east wing. Umridge and Filch had een oserved trying different means of
removing it ut without success. Eventually the area was roped off and Filch, gnashing his teeth
furiously, was given the task of punting students across it to their classrooms. Harry was certain
that teachers like McGonagall or Flitwick could have removed the swamp in an instant ut, just
as in the case of Fred and Georges Wildfire Whiz-angs, they seemed to prefer to watch
Umridge struggle.
Then there were the two large room-shaped holes in Umridge’s office door, through which
Fred and George’s Cleansweeps had smashed to rejoin their masters. Filch fitted a new door and
removed Harry’s Fireolt to the dungeons where, it was rumored, Umridge had set an armed
security troll to guard it. However, her troules were far from over.
Inspired y Fred and George’s example, a great numer of students were now vying for the
newly vacant positions of Troulemakers-in-Chief. In spite of the new door, someody managed
to slip a hairy-snouted Niffler into Umridge’s office, which promptly tore the place apart in its
search for shiny ojects, leapt on Umridge when she entered and tried to gnaw the rings off her
stuy fingers. Dungoms and Stink Pellets were dropped so frequently in the corridors that it
ecame the new fashion for students to perform Bule-Head Charms on themselves efore
leaving lessons, which ensured them a supply of fresh air, even though it gave them all the
peculiar appearance of wearing upside-down goldfish owls on their heads.
Filch prowled the corridors with a horsewhip ready in his hands, desperate to catch miscreants,
ut the prolem was that there were now so many of them he never knew which way to turn. The
Inquisitorial Squad was attempting to help him, ut odd things kept happening to its memers.
Warrington of the Slytherin Quidditch team reported to the hospital wing with a horrile skin
complaint that made him look as though he had een coated in cornflakes; Pansy Parkinson, to
Hermiones delight, missed all her lessons the following day as she had sprouted antlers.
Meanwhile, it ecame clear just how many Skiving Snackoxes Fred and George had managed
to sell efore leaving Hogwarts. Umridge only had to enter her classroom for the students
assemled there to faint, vomit, develop dangerous fevers or else spout lood from oth nostrils.
Shrieking with rage and frustration, she attempted to trace the mysterious symptoms to their
source, ut the students told her stuornly they were suffering from ‘Umridge -itis’. After
putting four successive classes in detention and failing to discover their secret, she was forced to
give up and allow the leeding, swooning, sweating and vomiting students to leave her classes in
droves.
But not even the users of the Snackoxes could compete with that master of chaos, Peeves, who
seemed to have taken Fred’s parting words deeply to heart. Cackling madly, he soared through
the school, upending tales, ursting out of lackoards, toppling statues and vases; twice he
shut Mrs. Norris inside a suit of armor, from which she was rescued, yowling loudly, y the
furious caretaker. Peeves smashed lanterns and snuffed out candles, juggled urning torches over
the heads of screaming students, caused neatly stacked piles of parchment to topple into fires or
out of windows; flooded the second floor when he pulled off all the taps in the athrooms,
dropped a ag of tarantulas in the middle of the Great Hall during reakfast and, whenever he
fancied a reak, spent hours at a time floating along after Umridge and lowing loud rasperries
every time she spoke.
None of the staff ut Filch seemed to e stirring themselves to help her. Indeed, a week after
Fred and George’s departure Harry witnessed Professor McGonagall walking right past Peeves,
who was determinedly loosening a crystal chandelier, and could have sworn he heard her tell the
poltergeist out of the corner of her mouth, "It unscrews the other way."
To cap matters, Montague had still not recovered from his sojourn in the toilet; he remained
confused and disorientated and his parents were to e oserved one Tuesday morning striding up
the front drive, looking extremely angry.
"Should we say something?" said Hermione in a worried voice, pressing her cheek against the
Charms window so that she could see Mr. and Mrs. Montague marching inside. "Aout what
happened to him? In case it helps Madam Pomfrey cure him?"
"Course not, he’ll recover," said Ron indifferently.
"Anyway, more troule for Umridge, isn’t it?" said Harry in a satisfied voice.
He and Ron oth tapped the teacups they were supposed to e charming with their wands.
Harry’s spouted four very short legs that could not reach the desk and wriggled pointlessly in
midair. Ron’s grew four very thin spindly legs that hoisted the cup off the desk with great
difficulty, tremled for a few seconds, then folded, causing the cup to crack into two.
"Reparo," said Hermione quickly, mending Ron’s cup with a wave of her wand. "That’s all very
well, ut what if Montague’s permanently injured?"
"Who cares?" said Ron irritaly, while his teacup stood up drunkenly again, tremling violently
at the knees. "Montague shouldn’t have tried to take all those points from Gryffindor, should he?
If you want to worry aout anyone, Hermione, worry aout me!"
"You?" she said, catching her teacup as it scampered happily away across the desk on four sturdy little willow-patterned legs, and replacing it in front of her. "Why should I e worried aout you?"
"When Mum’s next letter finally gets through Umridge’s screening process," said Ron itterly,
now holding his cup up while its frail legs tried feely to support its weight, "I’m going to e in
deep troule. I wouldn’t e surprised if she’s sent another Howler."
"But -"
"It’ll e my fault Fred and George left, you wait, " said Ron darkly. "She’ll say I should’ve
stopped them leaving, I should’ve graed the ends of their rooms and hung on or something...
yeah, it’ll e all my fault."
"Well, if she does say that it’ll e very unfair, you couldn’t have done anything! But I’m sure she won’t, I mean, if it’s really true they’ve got premises in Diagon Alley, they must have een
planning this for ages."
"Yeah, ut that’s another thing, how did they get premises?" said Ron, hitting his teacup so hard
with his wand that its legs collapsed again and it lay twitching efore him. "It’s a it dodgy isn’t
it? They’ll need loads of Galleons to afford the rent on a place in Diagon Alley. She’ll want to
know what they’ve een up to, to get their hands on that sort of gold."
"Well, yes, that occurred to me, too," said Hermione, allowing her teacup to jog in neat little
circles around Harry’s, whose stuy little legs were still unale to touch the desktop, "I’ve een
wondering whether Mundungus has persuaded them to sell stolen goods or something awful."
"He hasn’t," said Harry curtly.
"How do you know?" said Ron and Hermione together.
"Because -" Harry hesitated, ut the moment to confess finally seemed to have come. There was
no good to e gained in keeping silent if it meant anyone suspected that Fred and George were
criminals. "Because they got the gold from me. I gave them my Triwizard winnings last June."
There was a shocked silence, then Hermione’s teacup jogged right over the edge of the desk and
smashed on the floor.
"Oh, Harry, you didn’t!" she said.
"Yes, I did," said Harry mutinously. "And I don’t regret it, either. I didn’t need the gold and
they’ll e great at running a joke shop."
"But this is excellent!" said Ron, looking thrilled. "It’s all your fault, Harry - Mum can’t lame
me at all! Can I tell her?"
"Yeah, I suppose you’d etter," said Harry dully, "specially if she thinks they’re receiving stolen
cauldrons or something."
Hermione said nothing at all for the rest of the lesson, ut Harry had a shrewd suspicion that her
self-restraint was ound to crack efore long. Sure enough, once they had left the castle for reak
and were standing around in the weak May sunshine, she fixed Harry with a eady eye and
opened her mouth with a determined air.
Harry interrupted her efore she had even started.
"It’s no good nagging me, it’s done," he said firmly. "Fred and George have got the gold - spent a good it of it, too, y the sounds of it - and I can’t get it ack from them and I don’t want to. So
save your reath, Hermione."
"I wasn’t going to say anything aout Fred and George!" she said in an injured voice.
Ron snorted diselievingly and Hermione threw him a very dirty look.
"No, I wasn’t!" she said angrily. "As a matter of fact, I was going to ask Harry when he’s going
to go ack to Snape and ask for more Occlumency lessons!"
Harry’s heart sank. Once they had exhausted the suject of Fred and George’s dramatic
departure, which admittedly had taken many hours, Ron and Hermione had wanted to hear news
of Sirius. As Harry had not confided in them the reason he had wanted to talk to Sirius in the first
place, it had een hard to think of what to tell them; he had ended up saying, truthfully, that
Sirius wanted Harry to resume Occlumency lessons. He had een regretting this ever since;
Hermione would not let the suject drop and kept reverting to it when Harry least expected it.
"You can’t tell me you’ve stopped having funny dreams," Hermione said now, "ecause Ron told me you were muttering in your sleep again last night."
Harry threw Ron a furious look. Ron had the grace to look ashamed of himself.
"You were only muttering a it," he mumled apologetically. "Something aout ‘just a it
further’."
"I dreamed I was watching you lot play Quidditch," Harry lied rutally. "I was trying to get you
to stretch out a it further to gra the Quaffle."
Ron’s ears went red. Harry felt a kind of vindictive pleasure; he had not, of course, dreamed
anything of the sort.
Last night, he had once again made the journey along the Department of Mysteries corridor. He
had passed through the circular room, then the room full of clicking and dancing light, until he
found himself again inside that cavernous room full of shelves on which were ranged dusty glass
spheres.
He had hurried straight towards row numer ninety-seven, turned left, and ran along it... it had
proaly een then that he had spoken aloud... just a it further... for he felt his conscious self
struggling to wake... and efore he had reached the end of the row, he had found himself lying
in ed again, gazing up at the canopy of his four-poster.
"You are trying to lock your mind, aren’t you?" said Hermione, looking eadily at Harry. "You
are keeping going with your Occlumency?"
"Of course I am," said Harry, trying to sound as though this question was insulting, ut not quite
meeting her eye. The truth was he was so intensely curious aout what was hidden in that room
full of dusty ors, that he was quite keen for the dreams to continue.
The prolem was that with just under a month to go until the exams and every free moment
devoted to revision, his mind seemed so saturated with information when he went to ed he
found it very difficult to get to sleep at all; and when he did, his overwrought rain presented
him most nights with stupid dreams aout the exams. He also suspected that part of his mind -
the part that often spoke in Hermione’s voice -- now felt guilty on the occasions it strayed down
that corridor ending in the lack door, and sought to wake him efore he could reach the
journeys end.
"You know," said Ron, whose ears were still flaming red, "if Montague doesn’t recover efore
Slytherin play Hufflepuff, we might e in with a chance of winning the Cup."
"Yeah, I s’pose so," said Harry, glad of a change of suject.
"I mean, we’ve won one, lost one - if Slytherin lose to Hufflepuff next Saturday -"
"Yeah, that’s right," said Harry, losing track of what he was agreeing to. Cho Chang had just
walked across the courtyard, determinedly not looking at him.
The final match of the Quidditch season, Gryffindor versus Ravenclaw, was to take place on the
last weekend of May. Although Slytherin had een narrowly defeated y Hufflepuff in their last
match, Gryffindor were not daring to hope for victory, due mainly (though of course noody said
it to him) to Ron’s aysmal goal-keeping record. He, however, seemed to have found a new
optimism.
"I mean, I can’t get any worse, can I?" he told Harry and Hermione grimly over reakfast on the
morning of the match. "Nothing to lose now, is there?"
"You know," said Hermione, as she and Harry walked down to the pitch a little later in the midst
of a very excitale crowd, "I think Ron might do etter without Fred and George around. They
never exactly gave him a lot of confidence."
Luna Lovegood overtook them with what appeared to e a live eagle perched on top of her head.
"Oh, gosh, I forgot!" said Hermione, watching the eagle flapping its wings as Luna walked
serenely past a group of cackling and pointing Slytherins. "Cho will e playing, won’t she?"
Harry, who had not forgotten this, merely grunted.
They found seats in the topmost row of the stands. It was a fine, clear day; Ron could not wish
for etter, and Harry found himself hoping against hope that Ron would not give the Slytherins
cause for more rousing choruses of ‘Weasley is our King’.
Lee Jordan, who had een very dispirited since Fred and George had left, was commentating as
usual. As the teams zoomed out on to the pitch he named the players with something less than
his usual gusto.
"... Bradley... Davies... Chang," he said, and Harry felt his stomach perform, less of a ack flip,
more a feele lurch as Cho walked out on to the pitch, her shiny lack hair rippling in the slight
reeze. He was not sure what he wanted to happen any more, except that he could not stand any
more rows. Even the sight of her chatting animatedly to Roger Davies as they prepared to mount
their rooms caused him only a slight twinge of jealousy.
"And they’re off!" said Lee. "And Davies takes the Quaffle immediately, Ravenclaw Captain
Davies with the Quaffle, he dodges Johnson, he dodges Bell, he dodges Spinnet as well... he’s
going straight for goal! He’s going to shoot - and - and -" Lee swore very loudly. "And he’s
scored."
Harry and Hermione groaned with the rest of the Gryffindors. Predictaly, horrily, the
Slytherins on the other side of the stands egan to sing: "Weasley cannot save a thing He cannot lock a single ring..."
"Harry" said a hoarse voice in Harrys ear. "Hermione..."
Harry looked round and saw Hagrid’s enormous earded face sticking etween the seats.
Apparently, he had squeezed his way all along the row ehind, for the first- and second-years he
had just passed had a ruffled, flattened look aout them. For some reason, Hagrid was ent
doule as though anxious not to e seen, though he was still at least four feet taller than
everyody else.
"Listen," he whispered, "can yeh come with me? Now? While ev’ryone’s watchin’ the match?"
"Er... can’t it wait, Hagrid?" asked Harry. "Till the match is over?"
"No," said Hagrid. "No, Harry, it’s gotta e now... while ev’ryone’s lookin’ the other way...
please?"
Hagrid’s nose was gently dripping lood. His eyes were oth lackened. Harry had not seen him
this close-up since his return to the school; he looked utterly woeegone.
"Course," said Harry at once, "course we’ll come."
He and Hermione edged ack along their row of seats, causing much grumling among the
students who had to stand up for them. The people in Hagrid’s row were not complaining,
merely attempting to make themselves as small as possile.
"I ‘ppreciate this, you two, I really do," said Hag rid as they reached the stairs. He kept looking
around nervously as they descended towards the lawn elow. "I jus’ hope she doesn’ notice us
goin’."
"You mean Umridge?" said Harry. "She won’t, she’s got her whole Inquisitorial Squad sitting
with her, didn’t you see? She must e expecting troule at the match."
"Yeah, well, a it o’ troule wouldn’ hurt," said Hagrid, pausing to peer around the edge of the
stands to make sure the stretch of lawn etween there and his cain was deserted. "Give us more
time."
"What is it, Hagrid?" said Hermione, looking up at him with a concerned expression on her face
as they hurried across the grass towards the edge of the Forest.
"Yeh - yeh’ll see in a mo’," said Hagrid, looking over his shoulder as a great roar rose from the
stands ehind them. "Hey - did someone jus’ score?"
"It’ll e Ravenclaw," said Harry heavily.
"Good... good..." said Hagrid distractedly. "Tha’s good..."
They had to jog to keep up with him as he strode across the lawn, looking around with every
other step. When they reached his cain, Hermione turned automatically left towards the front
door. Hagrid, however, walked straight past it into the shade of the trees on the outermost edge
of the Forest, where he picked up a crossow that was leaning against a tree. When he realized
they were no longer with him, he turned.
"We’re goin’ in here," he said, jerking his shaggy head ehind him.
"Into the Forest?" said Hermione, perplexed.
"Yeah," said Hagrid. "C’mon now, quick, efore we’re spotted!"
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then ducked into the cover of the trees ehind Hagrid,
who was already striding away from them into the green gloom, his crossow over his arm.
Harry and Hermione ran to catch up with him.
"Hagrid, why are you armed?" said Harry.
"Jus’ a precaution," said Hagrid, shrugging his massive shoulders.
"You didn’t ring your crossow the day you showed us the Thestrals," said Hermione timidly.
"Nah, well, we weren’ goin’ in so far then," said Hagrid. "An’ anyway, tha’ was efore Firenze
left the Forest, wasn’ it?"
"Why does Firenze leaving make a difference?" asked Hermione curiously.
"Cause the other centaurs are good an’ riled at me, tha’s why," said Hagrid quietly, glancing
around. "They used ter e - well, yeh couldn’ call ‘em friendly -- ut we got on all righ’. Kept
‘emselves to ‘emselves, u’ always turned up if I wanted a word. Not any more."
He sighed deeply.
"Firenze said they’re angry ecause he went to work for Dumledore," Harry said, tripping on a
protruding root ecause he was usy watching Hagrid’s profile.
"Yeah," said Hagrid heavily. "Well, angry doesn’ cover it. Ruddy livid. If I hadn’ stepped in, I
reckon they’d’ve kicked Firenze ter death -"
"They attacked him?" said Hermione, sounding shocked.
"Yep," said Hagrid gruffly, forcing his way through several low-hanging ranches. "He had half
the herd on to him."
"And you stopped it?" said Harry, amazed and impressed. "By yourself?"
"Course I did, couldn’t stand y an’ watch ‘em kill ‘im, could I?" said Hagrid. "Lucky I was
passin’, really... an’ I’d’ve thought Firenze mighta rememered tha’ efore he started sendin’
me stupid warnin’s!" he added hotly and unexpectedly.
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, startled, ut Hagrid, scowling, did not elaorate.
"Anyway," he said, reathing a little more heavily than -usual, "since then the other centaurs’ve
in livid with me, an’ the troule is they’ve got a lot of influence in the Forest... cleverest
creatures in here."
"Is that why we’re here, Hagrid?" asked Hermione. "The centaurs?"
"Ah, no," said Hagrid, shaking his head dismissively, "no, it’s not them. Well, o’ course, they
could complicate the prolem, yeah... ut yeh’ll see what I mean in a it."
On this incomprehensile note he fell silent and forged a little ahead, taking one stride for every
three of theirs, so that they had great troule keeping up with him.
The path was ecoming increasingly overgrown and the trees grew so closely together as they
walked further and further into the Forest that it was as dark as dusk. They were soon a long way
past the clearing where Hagrid had shown them the Thestrals, ut Harry felt no sense of unease
until Hagrid stepped unexpectedly off the path and egan wending his way in and out of trees
towards the dark heart of the Forest.
"Hagrid!" said Harry, fighting his way through thickly knotted ramles, over which Hagrid had
stepped with ease, and rememering very vividly what had happened to him on the other
occasion he had stepped off the Forest path. "Where are we going?"
"Bit further," said Hagrid over his shoulder. "C’mon, Harry... we need ter keep together now."
It was a great struggle to keep up with Hagrid, what with ranches and thickets of thorn through
which Hagrid marched as easily as if they were cowes, ut which snagged Harry and
Hermione’s roes, frequently entangling them so severely that they had to stop for minutes at a
time to free themselves. Harry’s arms and legs were soon covered in small cuts and scratches.
They were so deep in the Forest now that sometimes all Harry could see of Hagrid in the gloom
was a massive dark shape ahead of him. Any sound seemed threatening in the muffled silence.
The reaking of a twig echoed loudly and the tiniest rustle of movement, even though it might
have een made y an innocent sparrow, caused Harry to peer through the gloom for a culprit. It
occurred to him that he had never managed to get this far into the Forest without meeting some
kind of creature; their asence struck him as rather ominous.
"Hagrid, would it e all right if we lit our wands?" said Hermione quietly.
"Er... all righ’," Hagrid whispered ack. "In fact -"
He stopped suddenly and turned around; Hermione walked right into him and was knocked over
ackwards. Harry caught her just efore she hit the Forest floor.
"Maye we es’ jus’ stop fer a momen’, so I can... fill yeh in," said Hagrid. "Before we ge’ there, like."
"Good!" said Hermione, as Harry set her ack on her feet. They oth murmured "Lumos!" and
their wand-tips ignited. Hagrid’s face swam through the gloom y the light of the two wavering
eams and Harry saw again that he looked nervous and sad.
"Righ’," said Hagrid. "Well... see... the thing is..."
He took a great reath.
"Well, there’s a good chance I’m goin’ ter e gettin’ the sack any day now," he said.
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then ack at him.
"But you’ve lasted this long -" Hermione said tentatively. "What makes you think -"
"Umridge reckons it was me that put tha’ Niffler in her office."
"And was it?" said Harry, efore he could stop himself.
"No, it ruddy well wasn’!" said Hagrid indignantly. "On’y any-thin’ ter do with magical creatures an’ she thinks it’s got somethin’ ter do with me. Yeh know she’s in lookin’ fer a chance ter get rid of me ever since I got ack. I don’ wan’ ter go, o’ course, ut if it wasn’ fer... well... the special circumstances I’m aou’ ter explain to yeh, I’d leave righ’ now, efore she’s go’ the chance ter do it in front o’ the whole school, like she did with Trelawney."
Harry and Hermione oth made noises of protest, ut Hagrid overrode them with a wave of one
of his enormous hands.
"It’s not the end o’ the world, I’ll e ale ter help Dumledore once I’m outta here, I can e
useful ter the Order. An’ you lot’ll have Gruly-Plank, yeh’ll - yeh’ll get through yer exams
fine..."
His voice tremled and roke.
"Don’ worry aou’ me," he said hastily, as Hermione made to pat his arm. He pulled his
enormous spotted handkerchief from the pocket of his waistcoat and mopped his eyes with it.
"Look, I wouldn’ e tellin’ yer this at all if I didn’ have ter. See, if I go... well, I can’ leave
withou’... withou’ tellin’ someone... ecause I’ll - I’ll need yeh two ter help me. An’ Ron, if
he’s willin’."
"Of course we’ll help you," said Harry at once. "What do you want us to do?"
Hagrid gave a great sniff and patted Harry wordlessly on the shoulder with such force Harry was
knocked sideways into a tree.
"I knew yeh’d say yes," said Hagrid into his handkerchief, "ut I won’... never... forget...
well... c’mon... jus’ a little it further through here... watch yerselves, now, there’s nettles..."
They walked on in silence for another fifteen minutes; Harry had opened his mouth to ask how
much further they had to go when Hagrid threw out his right arm to signal that they should stop.
"Really easy" he said softly. "Very quiet, now..."
They crept forwards and Harry saw that they were facing a large, smooth mound of earth nearly
as tall as Hagrid that he thought, with a jolt of dread, was sure to e the lair of some enormous
animal. Trees had een ripped up at the roots all around the mound, so that it stood on a are
patch of ground surrounded y heaps of trunks and oughs that formed a kind of fence or
arricade, ehind which Harry, Hermione and Hagrid now stood.
"Sleepin’," reathed Hagrid.
Sure enough, Harry could hear a distant, rhythmic rumling that sounded like a pair of enormous
lungs at work. He glanced sideways at Hermione, who was gazing at the mound with her mouth
slightly open. She looked utterly terrified.
"Hagrid," she said in a whisper arely audile over the sound of the sleeping creature, "who is
he?"
Harry found this an odd question..."What is it?" was the one he had een planning on asking.
"Hagrid, you told us -" said Hermione, her wand now shaking in her hand, "you told us none of
them wanted to come!"
Harry looked from her to Hagrid and then, as realization hit him, he looked ack at the mound
with a small gasp of horror.
The great mound of earth, on which he, Hermione and Hagrid could easily have stood, was
moving slowly up and down in time with the deep, grunting reathing. It was not a mound at all.
It was the curved ack of what was clearly --
"Well - no - he didn’ want ter come," said Hagrid, sounding desperate. "But I had ter ring him,
Hermione, I had ter!"
"But why?" asked Hermione, who sounded as though she wanted to cry. "Why - what -
oh, Hagrid!"
"I knew if I jus’ got him ack," said Hagrid, sounding close to tears himself, "an’ - an’ taught him a few manners - I’d e ale ter take him outside an’ show ev’ryone he’s harmless!"
"Harmless!" said Hermione shrilly, and Hagrid made frantic hushing noises with his hands as the
enormous creature efore them grunted loudly and shifted in its sleep. "He’s een hurting you all
this time, hasn’t he? That’s why you’ve had all these injuries!"
"He don’ know his own strength!" said Hagrid earnestly. "An’ he’s gettin’ etter, he’s not fightin’ so much any more --"
"So, this is why it took you two months to get home!" said Hermione distractedly. "Oh, Hagrid,
why did you ring him ack if he didn’t want to come? Wouldn’t he have een happier with his
own people?"
"They were all ullyin’ him, Hermione, ‘cause he’s so small!" said Hagrid.
"Small?" said Hermione. "Small?"
"Hermione, I couldn’ leave him," said Hagrid, tears now trickling down his ruised face into his
eard. "See - he’s my rother!"
Hermione simply stared at him, her mouth open.
"Hagrid, when you say ‘rother’," said Harry slowly, "d o you mean --?"
"Well - half-rother," amended Hagrid. "Turns out me mother took up with another giant when
she left me dad, an’ she went an’ had Grawp here -"
"Grawp?" said Harry.
"Yeah... well, tha’s what it sounds like when he says his name," said Hagrid anxiously. "He don’ speak a lot of English... I’ve in tryin’ ter teach him... anyway, she don’ seem ter have liked him much more’n she liked me. See, with giantesses, what counts is producin’ good ig kids, and he’s always een a it on the runty side fer a giant - on’y sixteen foot -"
"Oh, yes, tiny!" said Hermione, with a kind of hysterical sarcasm. "Asolutely minuscule!"
"He was ein’ kicked aroun’ y all o’ them - I jus’ couldn’ leave him -"
"Did Madame Maxime want to ring him ack?" asked Harry.
"She - well, she could see it was right importan’ ter me," said Hagrid, twisting his enormous
hands. "Bu’ - u’ she got a it tired o’ him after a while, I must admit... so we split up on the
journey home... she promised not ter tell anyone, though..."
"How on earth did you get him ack without anyone noticing?" said Harry.
"Well, tha’s why it took so long, see," said Hagrid. "Could on’y travel y nigh’ an’ through wild
country an’ stuff. Course, he covers the ground pretty well when he wants ter, ut he kep’
wantin’ ter go ack."
"Oh, Hagrid, why on earth didn’t you let him!" said Hermione, flopping down on to a ripped up
tree and urying her face in her hands. "What do you think you’re going to do with a violent
giant who doesn’t even want to e here!"
"Well, now - ‘violent’ - tha’s a it harsh," said Hagrid, still twisting his hands agitatedly. "I’ll admit he mighta taken a couple o’ swings at me when he’s in in a ad mood, ut he’s gettin’ etter, loads etter, settlin’ down well."
"What are those ropes for, then?" Harry asked.
He had just noticed ropes thick as saplings stretching from around the trunks of the largest
neary trees towards the place where Grawp lay curled on the ground with his ack to them.
"You have to keep him tied up?" said Hermione faintly.
"Well... yeah..." said Hagrid, looking anxious. "See - it’s like I say - he doesn’ really know ‘is
own strength."
Harry understood now why there had een such a suspicious lack of any other living creature in
this part of the Forest.
"So, what is it you want Harry and Ron and me to do?" Hermione asked apprehensively.
"Look after him," said Hagrid croakily. "After I’m gone."
Harry and Hermione exchanged miserale looks, Harry uncomfortaly aware that he had already
promised Hagrid that he would do whatever he asked.
"What - what does that involve, exactly?" Hermione enquired.
"Not food or anythin’!" said Hagrid eagerly. "He can get his own food, no prolem. Birds an’
deer an’ stuff... no, it’s company he needs. If I jus’ knew someone was carryin’ on tryin’ ter help
him a it... teachin’ him, yeh know."
Harry said nothing, ut turned to look ack at the gigantic form lying asleep on the ground in
front of them. Unlike Hagrid, who simply looked like an oversized human, Grawp looked
strangely misshapen. What Harry had taken to e a vast mossy oulder to the left of the great
earthen mound he now recognized as Grawp’s head. It was much larger in proportion to the ody
than a human head, and was almost perfectly round and covered with tightly curling, close-growing hair the color of racken. The rim of a single large, fleshy ear was visile on top of the head, which seemed to sit, rather like Uncle Vernon’s, directly upon the shoulders with little or no neck in etween. The ack, under what looked like a dirty rownish smock comprised of animal skins sewn roughly together, was very road; and as Grawp slept, it seemed to strain a
little at the rough seams of the skins. The legs were curled up under the ody. Harry could see
the soles of enormous, filthy, are feet, large as sledges, resting one on top of the other on the
earthy Forest floor.
"You want us to teach him," Harry said in a hollow voice. He now understood what Firenze’s
warning had meant. His attempt is not working. He would do etter to aandon it. Of course, the
other creatures who lived in the Forest would have heard Hagrids fruitless attempts to teach
Grawp English.
"Yeah - even if yeh jus’ talk ter him a it," said Hagrid hopefully. "Cause I reckon, if he can talk
ter people, he’ll understand more that we all like ‘im really, an’ want ‘im ter stay."
Harry looked at Hermione, who peered ack at him from etween the fingers over her face.
"Kind of makes you wish we had Norert ack, doesn’t it?" he said, and she gave a very shaky
laugh.
"Yeh’ll do it, then?" said Hagrid, who did not seem to have caught what Harry had just said.
"We’ll..." said Harry, already ound y his promise. "We’ll try, Hagrid."
"I knew I could count on yeh, Harry," Hagrid said, eaming in a very watery way and daing at
his face with his handkerchief again. "An’ I don’ want yeh ter put yerself out too much, like... I
know yeh’ve got exams... if yeh could jus’ nip down here in yer Invisiility Cloak maye once a
week an’ have a little chat with ‘im. I’ll wake ‘im up, then - introduce yeh -"
"Wha-- no!" said Hermione, jumping up. "Hagrid, no, don’t wake him, really, we don’t need -"
But Hagrid had already stepped over the great tree trunk in front of them and was proceeding
towards Grawp. When he was aout ten feet away, he lifted a long, roken ough from the
ground, smiled reassuringly over his shoulder at Harry and Hermione, then poked Grawp hard in
the middle of the ack with the end of the ough.
The giant gave a roar that echoed around the silent Forest; irds in the treetops overhead rose
twittering from their perches and soared away. In front of Harry and Hermione, meanwhile, the
gigantic Grawp was rising from the ground, which shuddered as he placed an enormous hand
upon it to push himself on to his knees. He turned his head to see who and what had distured
him.
"All righ’, Grawpy?" said Hagrid, in a would-e cheery voice, acking away with the long ough raised, ready to poke Grawp again. "Had a nice sleep, eh?"
Harry and Hermione retreated as far as they could while still keeping the giant within their
sights. Grawp knelt etween two trees he had not yet uprooted. They looked up into his
startlingly huge face that resemled a grey full moon swimming in the gloom of the clearing. It
was as though the features had een hewn on to a great stone all. The nose was stuy and
shapeless, the mouth lopsided and full of misshapen yellow teeth the size of half-ricks; the eyes,
small y giant standards, were a muddy greenish-rown and just now were half-gummed
together with sleep. Grawp raised dirty knuckles, each as ig as a cricket all, to his eyes, rued
vigorously, then, without warning, pushed himself to his feet with surprising speed and agility.
"Oh my!" Harry heard Hermione squeal, terrified, eside him.
The trees to which the other ends of the ropes around Grawp’s wrists and ankles were attached
creaked ominously. He was, as Hagrid had said, at least sixteen feet tall. Gazing learily around,
Grawp reached out a hand the size of a each umrella, seized a ird’s nest from the upper
ranches of a towering pine and turned it upside-down with a roar of apparent displeasure that
there was no ird in it; eggs fell like grenades towards the ground and Hagrid threw his arms
over his head to protect himself.
"Anyway, Grawpy," shouted Hagrid, looking up apprehensively in case of further falling eggs,
"I’ve rought some friends ter meet yeh. Rememer, I told yeh I might? Rememer, when I said
I might have ter go on a little trip an’ leave them ter look after yeh fer a it? Rememer that,
Grawpy?"
But Grawp merely gave another low roar; it was hard to say whether he was listening to Hagrid
or whether he even recognized the sounds Hagrid was making as speech. He had now seized the
top of the pine tree and was pulling it towards him, evidently for the simple pleasure of seeing
how far it would spring ack when he let go.
"Now, Grawpy, don’ do that!" shouted Hagrid. "Tha’s how you ended up pullin’ up the others -"
And sure enough, Harry could see the earth around the tree’s roots eginning to crack.
"I got company for yeh!" Hagrid shouted. "Company, see! Look down, yeh ig uffoon, I
rought yeh some friends!"
"Oh, Hagrid, don’t," moaned Hermione, ut Hagrid had already raised the ough again and gave
Grawp’s knee a sharp poke.
The giant let go of the top of the tree, which swayed alarmingly and deluged Hagrid with a rain
of pine needles, and looked down.
"This," said Hagrid, hastening over to where Harry and Hermione stood, "is Harry, Grawp! Harry Potter! He migh’ e comin’ ter visit yeh if I have ter go away, understand?"
The giant had only just realized that Harry and Hermione were there. They watched, in great
trepidation, as he lowered his huge oulder of a head so that he could peer learily at them.
"An’ this is Hermione, see? Her--" Hagrid hesitated. Turning to Hermione, he said, "Would yeh
mind if he called yeh Hermy, Hermione? On’y it’s a difficult name fer him ter rememer."
"No, not at all," squeaked Hermione.
"This is Hermy, Grawp! An’ she’s gonna e comin’ an’ all! Is’n’ tha’ nice? Eh? Two friends fer
yeh ter - GRAWPY, NO!"
Grawp’s hand had shot out of nowhere towards Hermione; Harry seized her and pulled her
ackwards ehind the tree, so that Grawp’s fist scraped the trunk ut closed on thin air.
"BAD BOY, GRAWPY!" they heard Hagrid yelling, as Hermione clung to Harry ehind the tree, shaking and whimpering. "VERY BAD BOY! YEH DON’ GRAB - OUCH!"
Harry poked his head out from around the trunk and saw Hagrid lying on his ack, his hand over
his nose. Grawp, apparently losing interest, had straightened up and was again engaged in
pulling ack the pine as far as it would go.
"Righ’," said Hagrid thickly, getting up with one hand pinching his leeding nose and the other
grasping his crossow, "well... there yeh are... yeh’ve met him an’ - an’ now he’ll know yeh
when yeh come ack. Yeah... well..."
He looked up at Grawp, who was now pulling ack the pine with an expression of detached
pleasure on his oulderish face; the roots were creaking as he ripped them away from the ground.
"Well, I reckon tha’s enough fer one day," said Hagrid. "We’ll -er - we’ll go ack now, shall we?"
Harry and Hermione nodded. Hagrid shouldered his crossow again and, still pinching his nose,
led the way ack into the trees.
Noody spoke for a while, not even when they heard the distant crash that meant Grawp had
pulled over the pine tree at last. Hermione’s face was pale and set. Harry could not think of a
single thing to say. What on earth was going to happen when someody found out that Hagrid
had hidden Grawp in the Foridden Forest? And he had promised that he, Ron and Hermione
would continue Hagrid’s totally pointless attempts to civilize the giant. How could Hagrid, even
with his immense capacity to delude himself that fanged monsters were lovealy harmless, fool
himself that Grawp would ever e fit to mix with humans?
"Hold it," said Hagrid aruptly, just as Harry and Hermione were struggling through a patch of
thick knotgrass ehind him. He pulled an arrow out of the quiver over his shoulder and fitted it
into the crossow. Harry and Hermione raised their wands; now that they had stopped walking,
they, too, could hear movement close y.
"Oh, limey" said Hagrid quietly.
"I thought we told you, Hagrid," said a deep male voice, "that you are no longer welcome here?"
A man’s naked torso seemed for an instant to e floating towards them through the dappled
green half-light; then they saw that his waist joined smoothly into a horse’s chestnut ody. This
centaur had a proud, high-cheekoned face and long lack hair. Like Hagrid, he was armed; a
quiverful of arrows and a longow were slung over his shoulders.
"How are yeh, Magorian?" said Hagrid warily.
The trees ehind the centaur rustled and four or five more centaurs emerged ehind him. Harry
recognized the lack-odied and earded Bane, whom he had met nearly four years ago on the
same night he had met Firenze. Bane gave no sign that he had ever seen Harry efore.
"So," he said, with a nasty inflection in his voice, efore turning immediately to Magorian. "We
agreed, I think, what we would do if this human ever showed his face in the Forest again?"
"‘This human’ now, am I?" said Hagrid testily. "Jus ‘ fer stoppin’ all of yeh committin’ murder?"
"You ought not to have meddled, Hagrid," said Magorian. "Our ways are not yours, nor are our
laws. Firenze has etrayed and dishonored us."
"I dunno how yeh’work that out," said Hagrid impatiently. "He’s done nothin’ except help Alus Dumledore -"
"Firenze has entered into servitude to humans," said a grey centaur with a hard, deeply lined face.
"Servitude!" said Hagrid scathingly. "He’s doin’ Dumledore a favor is all -"
"He is peddling our knowledge and secrets among humans," said Magorian quietly. "There can e no return from such disgrace."
"If yeh say so," said Hagrid, shrugging, "ut personally I think yeh’re makin’ a ig mistake -"
"As are you, human," said Bane, "coming ack into our Forest when we warned you -"
"Now, yeh listen ter me," said Hagrid angrily. "I’ll have less of the ‘our’ Forest, if it’s all the
same ter yeh. It’s not up ter yeh who comes an’ goes in here -"
"No more is it up to you, Hagrid," said Magorian smoothly. "I shall let you pass today ecause
you are accompanied y your young --"
"They’re not his!" interrupted Bane contemptuously. "Students, Magorian, from up at the school! They have proaly already profited from the traitor Firenze’s teachings."
"Nevertheless," said Magorian calmly, "the slaughter of foals is a terrile crime - we do not touch the innocent. Today, Hagrid, you pass. Henceforth, stay away from this place. You forfeited the friendship of the centaurs when you helped the traitor Firenze escape us."
"I won’ e kept outta the Fores’ y a unch o’ old mules like yeh!" said Hagrid loudly.
"Hagrid," said Hermione in a high-pitched and terrified voice, as oth Bane and the grey centaur
pawed at the ground, "let’s go, please let’s go!"
Hagrid moved forwards, ut his crossow was still raised and his eyes were still fixed
threateningly upon Magorian.
"We know what you are keeping in the Forest, Hagrid!" Magorian called after them, as the
centaurs slipped out of sight. "And our tolerance is waning!"
Hagrid turned and gave every appearance of wanting to walk straight ack to Magorian.
"Yeh’ll tolerate ‘im as long as he’s here, it’s as much his Forest as yours!" he yelled, as Harry
and Hermione oth pushed with all their might against Hagrid’s moleskin waistcoat in an effort
to keep him moving forwards. Still scowling, he looked down; his expression changed to mild
surprise at the sight of them oth pushing him; he seemed not to have felt it.
"Calm down, you two," he said, turning to walk on while they panted along ehind him. "Ruddy
old mules, though, eh?"
"Hagrid," said Hermione reathlessly, skirting the patch of nettles they had passed on their way
there, "if the centaurs don’t want humans in the Forest, it doesn’t really look as though Harry and
I will e ale -"
"Ah, you heard what they said," said Hagrid dismissively, "they wouldn’t hurt foals - I mean,
kids. Anyway, we can’ let ourselves e pushed aroun’ y that lot."
"Nice try," Harry murmured to Hermione, who looked crestfallen.
At last they rejoined the path and, after another ten minutes, the trees egan to thin; they were
ale to see patches of clear lue sky again and, in the distance, the definite sounds of cheering
and shouting.
"Was that another goal?" asked Hagrid, pausing in the shelter of the trees as the Quidditch
stadium came into view. "Or d’yeh reckon the match is over?"
"I don’t know," said Hermione miseraly. Harry saw that she looked much the worse for wear;
her hair was full of twigs and leaves, her roes were ripped in several places and there were
numerous scratches on her face and arms. He knew he must look little etter.
"I reckon it’s over, yeh know!" said Hagrid, still squinting towards the stadium. "Look - there’s
people comin’ out already - if yeh two hurry yeh’ll e ale ter lend in with the crowd an’ no
one’ll know yeh weren’t there!"
"Good idea," said Harry. "Well... see you later, then, Hagrid."
"I don’t elieve him," said Hermione in a very unsteady voice, the moment they were out of
earshot of Hagrid. "I don’t elieve him. I really don’t elieve him."
"Calm down," said Harry.
"Calm down!" she said feverishly. "A giant! A giant in the Forest! And we’re supposed to give
him English lessons! Always assuming, of course, we can get past the herd of murderous
centaurs on the way in and out! I - don’t -elieve - him!"
"We haven’t got to do anything yet!" Harry tried to reassure her in a quiet voice, as they joined a
stream of jaering Hufflepuffs heading ack towards the castle. "He’s not asking us to do
anything unless he gets chucked out and that might not even happen."
"Oh, come off it, Harry!" said Hermione angrily, stopping dead in her tracks so that the people
ehind had to swerve to avoid her. "Of course he’s going to e chucked out and, to e perfectly
honest, after what we’ve just seen, who can lame Umridge?"
There was a pause in which Harry glared at her, and her eyes filled slowly with tears.
"You didn’t mean that," said Harry quietly.
"No... well... all right... I didn’t," she said, wiping her eyes angrily. "But why does he have to
make life so difficult for himself - for us?’
"I dunno -"
"Weasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He didn’t let the Quaffle in, Weasley is our King..."
"And I wish they’d stop singing that stupid song," said Hermione miseraly, "haven’t they
gloated enough?"
A great tide of students was moving up the sloping lawns from the pitch.
"Oh, let’s get in efore we have to meet the Slytherins," said Hermione.
"Weasley can save anything, He never leaves a single ring, That’s why Gryffindors all sing,
Weasley is our King."
"Hermione..." said Harry slowly.
The song was growing louder, ut it was issuing not from a crowd of green-and-silver-clad
Slytherins, ut from a mass of red and gold moving slowly towards the castle, earing a solitary
figure upon its many shoulders.
"Weasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He didn’t let the Quaffle in, Weasley is our King..."
"No?" said Hermione in a hushed voice.
"YES!" said Harry loudly.
"HARRY! HERMIONE!" yelled Ron, waving the silver Quidditch cup in the air and looking
quite eside himself. "WE DID IT! WE WON!"
They eamed up at him as he passed. There was a scrum at the door of the castle and Ron’s head
got rather adly umped on the lintel, ut noody seemed to want to put him down. Still singing,
the crowd squeezed itself into the Entrance Hall and out of sight. Harry and Hermione watched
them go, eaming, until the last echoing strains of ‘Weasley is our King’ died away. Then they
turned to each other, their smiles fading.
"We’ll save our news till tomorrow, shall we?" said Harry.
"Yes, all right," said Hermione wearily. "I’m not in any hurry."
They climed the steps together. At the front doors oth instinctively looked ack at the
Foridden Forest. Harry was not sure whether or not it was his imagination, ut he rather thought
he saw a small cloud of irds erupting into the air over the tree tops in the distance, almost as
though the tree in which they had een nesting had just een pulled up y the roots.
CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE
O.W.L.s
Ron’s euphoria at helping Gryffindor scrape the Quidditch cup was such that he couldn’t settle to
anything next day. All he wanted to do was talk over the match, so Harry and Hermione found it
very difficult to find an opening in which to mention Grawp. Not that either of them tried very
hard; neither was keen to e the one to ring Ron ack to reality in quite such a rutal fashion.
As it was another fine, warm day, they persuaded him to join them in revising under the eech
tree at the edge of the lake, where they had less chance of eing overheard than in the common
room. Ron was not particularly keen on this idea at first - he was thoroughly enjoying eing
patted on the ack y every Gryffindor who walked past his chair, not to mention the occasional
outursts of ‘Weasley is our King’ - ut after a while he agreed that some fresh air might do him
good.
They spread their ooks out in the shade of the eech tree and sat down while Ron talked them
through his first save of the match for what felt like the dozenth time.
"Well, I mean, I’d already let in that one of Davies’s, so I wasn’t feeling all that confident, ut I
dunno, when Bradley came towards me, just out of nowhere, I thought - you can do this! And I
had aout a second to decide which way to fly, you know, ecause he looked like he was aiming
for the right goalhoop - my right, oviously, his left - ut I had a funny feeling that he was
feinting, and so I took the chance and flew left - his right, I mean - and - well - you saw what
happened," he concluded modestly, sweeping his hair ack quite unnecessarily so that it looked
interestingly windswept and glancing around to see whether the people nearest to them -- a
unch of gossiping third-year Hufflepuffs -- had heard him. "And then, when Chamers came at
me aout five minutes later - What?" Ron asked, having stopped mid-sentence at the look on
Harry’s face. "Why are you grinning?"
"I’m not," said Harry quickly, and looked down at his Transfiguration notes, attempting to
straighten his face. The truth was that Ron had just reminded Harry forcily of another
Gryffindor Quidditch player who had once sat rumpling his hair under this very tree. "I’m just
glad we won, that’s all."
"Yeah," said Ron slowly, savoring the words, "we won. Did you see the look on Changs face
when Ginny got the Snitch right out from under her nose?"
"I suppose she cried, did she?" said Harry itterly.
"Well, yeah - more out of temper than anything, though..." Ron frowned slightly. "But you saw
her chuck her room away when she got ack to the ground, didn’t you?"
"Er -" said Harry.
"Well, actually... no, Ron," said Hermione with a heavy sigh, putting down her ook and looking at him apologetically. "As a matter of fact, the only it of the match Harry and I saw was
Davies’s first goal."
Ron’s carefully ruffled hair seemed to wilt with disappointment. "You didn’t watch?" he said
faintly, looking from one to the other. "You didn’t see me make any of those saves?"
"Well - no," said Hermione, stretching out a placatory hand towards him. "But Ron, we didn’t
want to leave -- we had to!"
"Yeah?" said Ron, whose face was growing rather red. "How come?"
"It was Hagrid," said Harry. "He decided to tell us why he’s een covered in injuries ever since
he got ack from the giants. He wanted us to go into the Forest with him, we had no choice, you
know how he gets. Anyway..."
The story was told in five minutes, y the end of which Ron’s indignation had een replaced y a
look of total incredulity.
"He rought one ack and hid it in the Forest?"
"Yep," said Harry grimly.
"No," said Ron, as though y saying this he could make it untrue. "No, he can’t have."
"Well, he has," said Hermione firmly. "Grawp’s aout sixteen feet tall, enjoys ripping up twenty-foot pine trees, and knows me," she snorted, "as Hermy."
Ron gave a nervous laugh.
"And Hagrid wants us to...?"
"Teach him English, yeah," said Harry.
"He’s lost his mind," said Ron in an almost awed voice.
"Yes," said Hermione irritaly, turning a page of Intermediate Transfiguration and glaring at a
series of diagrams showing an owl turning into a pair of opera glasses. "Yes, I’m starting to think
he has. But, unfortunately, he made Harry and me promise."
"Well, you’re just going to have to reak your promise, that’s all," said Ron firmly. "I mean,
come on... we’ve got exams and we’re aout that far -" he held up his hand to show thum and
forefinger almost touching "- from eing chucked out as it is. And anyway... rememer Norert?
Rememer Aragog? Have we ever come off etter for mixing with any of Hagrid’s monster
mates?"
"I know, it’s just that - we promised," said Hermione in a small voice.
Ron smoothed his hair flat again, looking preoccupied.
"Well," he sighed, "Hagrid hasn’t een sacked yet, has he? He’s hung on this long, maye he’ll
hang on till the end of term and we won’t have to go near Grawp at all."
The castle grounds were gleaming in the sunlight as though freshly painted; the cloudless sky
smiled at itself in the smoothly sparkling lake; the satin green lawns rippled occasionally in a
gentle reeze. June had arrived, ut to the fifth-years this meant only one thing: their OWLs were
upon them at last.
Their teachers were no longer setting them homework; lessons were devoted to revising those
topics the teachers thought most likely to come up in the exams. The purposeful, feverish
atmosphere drove nearly everything ut the OWLs from Harry’s mind, though he did wonder
occasionally during Potions lessons whether Lupin had ever told Snape that he must continue
giving Harry Occlumency tuition. If he had, then Snape had ignored Lupin as thoroughly as he
was now ignoring Harry. This suited Harry very well; he was quite usy and tense enough
without extra classes with Snape, and to his relief Hermione was much too preoccupied these
days to adger him aout Occlumency; she was spending a lot of time muttering to herself, and
had not laid out any elf clothes for days.
She was not the only person acting oddly as the OWLs drew steadily nearer. Ernie Macmillan
had developed an irritating hait of interrogating people aout their study haits.
"How many hours d’you think you’re doing a day?" he demanded of Harry and Ron as they
queued outside Herology, a manic gleam in his eyes.
"I dunno," said Ron. "A few."
"More or less than eight?"
"Less, I s’pose," said Ron, looking slightly alarmed.
"I’m doing eight," said Ernie, puffing out his chest. "Eight or nine. I’m getting an hour in efore
reakfast every day. Eights my average. I can do ten on a good weekend day. I did nine and a
half on Monday. Not so good on Tuesday - only seven and a quarter. Then on Wednesday -"
Harry was deeply thankful that Professor Sprout ushered them into greenhouse three at that
point, forcing Ernie to aandon his recital.
Meanwhile, Draco Malfoy had found a different way to induce panic.
"Of course, it’s not what you know," he was heard to tell Crae and Goyle loudly outside
Potions a few days efore the exams were to start, "it’s who you know. Now, Father’s een
friendly with the head of the Wizarding Examinations Authority for years -- old Griselda
Marchanks - we’ve had her round for dinner and everything..."
"Do you think that’s true?" Hermione whispered in alarm to Harry and Ron.
"Nothing we can do aout it if it is," said Ron gloomily.
"I don’t think it’s true," said Neville quietly from ehind them. "Because Griselda Marchanks is
a friend of my gran’s, and she’s never mentioned the Malfoys."
"What’s she like, Neville?" asked Hermione at once. "Is she strict?"
"Bit like Gran, really," said Neville in a sudued voice.
"Knowing her won’t hurt your chances, though, will it?" Ron told him encouragingly.
"Oh, I don’t think it will make any difference," said Neville, still more miseraly. "Grans always
telling Professor Marchanks I’m not as good as my dad... well... you saw what she’s like at St
Mungo’s" Neville looked fixedly at the floor. Harry, Ron and Hermione glanced at each other, ut didn’t know what to say. It was the first time Neville had acknowledged that they had met at the wizarding hospital.
Meanwhile, a flourishing lack-market trade in aids to concentration, mental agility and
wakefulness had sprung up among the fifth- and seventh-years. Harry and Ron were much
tempted y the ottle of Baruffio’s Brain Elixir offered to them y Ravenclaw sixth-year Eddie
Carmichael, who swore it was solely responsile for the nine ‘Outstanding’ OWLs he had gained
the previous summer and was offering a whole pint for a mere twelve Galleons. Ron assured
Harry he would reimurse him for his half the moment he left Hogwarts and got a jo, ut efore
they could close the deal, Hermione had confiscated the ottle from Carmichael and poured the
contents down a toilet.
"Hermione, we wanted to uy that!" shouted Ron.
"Don’t e stupid," she snarled. "You might as well take Harold Dingle’s powdered dragon claw
and have done with it."
"Dingle’s got powdered dragon claw?" said Ron eagerly.
"Not any more," said Hermione. "I confiscated that, too. None of these things actually work, you
know."
"Dragon claw does work!" said Ron. "It’s supposed to e incredile, really gives your rain a
oost, you come over all cunning for a few hours - Hermione, let me have a pinch, go on, it can’t
hurt -"
"This stuff can," said Hermione grimly. "I’ve had a look at it, and it’s actually dried Doxy
droppings."
This information took the edge off Harry and Rons desire for rain stimulants.
They received their examination timetales and details of the procedure for OWLs during their
next Transfiguration lesson.
"As you can see," Professor McGonagall told the class as they copied down the dates and times
of their exams from the lackoard, "your OWLs are spread over two successive weeks. You
will sit the theory exams in the mornings and the practice in the afternoons. Your practical
Astronomy examination will, of course, take place at night.
"Now, I must warn you that the most stringent anti-cheating charms have een applied to your
examination papers. Auto-Answer Quills are anned from the examination hall, as are
Rememralls, Detachale Criing Cuffs and Self-Correcting Ink. Every year, I am afraid to say,
seems to haror at least one student who thinks that he or she can get around the Wizarding
Examinations Authority’s rules. I can only hope that it is noody in Gryffindor. Our new -
Headmistress --" Professor McGonagall pronounced the word with the same look on her face
that Aunt Petunia had whenever she was contemplating a particularly stuorn it of dirt "- has
asked the Heads of House to tell their students that cheating will e punished most severely -
ecause, of course, your examination results will reflect upon the Headmistress’s new regime at
the school -"
Professor McGonagall gave a tiny sigh; Harry saw the nostrils of her sharp nose flare.
"- however, that is no reason not to do your very est. You have your own futures to think aout."
"Please, Professor," said Hermione, her hand in the air, "when will we find out our results?"
"An owl will e sent to you some time in July" said Professor McGonagall.
"Excellent," said Dean Thomas in an audile whisper, "so we don’t have to worry aout it till the holidays."
Harry imagined sitting in his edroom in Privet Drive in six weeks’ time, waiting for his OWL
results. Well, he thought dully, at least he would e sure of one it of post next summer.
Their first examination, Theory of Charms, was scheduled for Monday morning. Harry agreed to
test Hermione after lunch on Sunday, ut regretted it almost at once; she was very agitated and
kept snatching the ook ack from him to check that she had got the answer completely right,
finally hitting him hard on the nose with the sharp edge of Achievements in Charming.
"Why don’t you just do it yourself?" he said firmly, handing the ook ack to her, his eyes
watering.
Meanwhile, Ron was reading two years’ worth of Charms notes with his fingers in his ears, his
lips moving soundlessly; Seamus Finnigan was lying flat on his ack on the floor, reciting the
definition of a Sustantive Charm while Dean checked it against The Standard Book of Spells,
Grade 5; and Parvati and Lavender, who were practicing asic Locomotion Charms, were
making their pencil-cases race each other around the edge of the tale.
Dinner was a sudued affair that night. Harry and Ron did not talk much, ut ate with gusto,
having studied hard all day. Hermione, on the other hand, kept putting down her knife and fork
and diving under the tale for her ag, from which she would seize a ook to check some fact or
figure. Ron was just telling her that she ought to eat a decent meal or she would not sleep that
night, when her fork slid from her limp fingers and landed with a loud tinkle on her plate.
"Oh, my goodness," she said faintly, staring into the Entrance Hall. "Is that them? Is that the
examiners?"
Harry and Ron whipped around on their ench. Through the doors to the Great Hall they could
see Umridge standing with a small group of ancient-looking witches and wizards. Umridge,
Harry was pleased to see, looked rather nervous.
"Shall we go and have a closer look?" said Ron.
Harry and Hermione nodded and they hastened towards the doule doors into the Entrance Hall,
slowing down as they stepped over the threshold to walk sedately past the examiners. Harry
thought Professor Marchanks must e the tiny, stooped witch with a face so lined it looked as
though it had een draped in cowes; Umridge was speaking to her deferentially. Professor
Marchanks seemed to e a little deaf; she was answering Professor Umridge very loudly
considering they were only a foot apart.
"Journey was fine, journey was fine, we’ve made it plenty of times efore!" she said impatiently. "Now, I haven’t heard from Dumledore lately!" she added, peering around the Hall as though
hopeful he might suddenly emerge from a room cupoard. "No idea where he is, I suppose?"
"None at all," said Umridge, shooting a malevolent look at Harry, Ron and Hermione, who were now dawdling around the foot of the stairs as Ron pretended to do up his shoelace. "But I daresay the Ministry of Magic will track him down soon enough."
"I dout it," shouted tiny Professor Marchanks, "not if Dumledore doesn’t want to e found! I
should know... examined him personally in Transfiguration and Charms when he did NEWTs...
did things with a wand I’d never seen efore."
"Yes... well..." said Professor Umridge as Harry, Ron and Hermione dragged their feet up the
marle staircase as slowly as they dared, "let me show you to the staff room. I daresay you’d like a cup of tea after your journey."
It was an uncomfortale sort of an evening. Everyone was trying to do some last-minute revising
ut noody seemed to e getting very far. Harry went to ed early ut then lay awake for what
felt like hours. He rememered his careers consultation and McGonagall’s furious declaration
that she would help him ecome an Auror if it was the last thing she did. He wished he had
expressed a more achievale amition now that exam time was here. He knew he was not the
only one lying awake, ut none of the others in the dormitory spoke and finally, one y one, they
fell asleep.
None of the fifth-years talked very much at reakfast next day, either: Parvati was practicing
incantations under her reath while the salt cellar in front of her twitched; Hermione was
rereading Achievements in Charming so fast that her eyes appeared lurred; and Neville kept
dropping his knife and fork and knocking over the marmalade.
Once reakfast was over, the fifth- and seventh-years milled around in the Entrance Hall while
the other students went off to lessons; then, at half past nine, they were called forwards class y
class to re-enter the Great Hall, which had een rearranged exactly as Harry had seen it in the
Pensieve when his father, Sirius and Snape had een taking their OWLs; the four house tales
had een removed and replaced instead with many tales for one, all facing the staff-tale end of
the Hall where Professor McGonagall stood facing them. When they were all seated and quiet,
she said, "You may egin," and turned over an enormous hour-glass on the desk eside her, on
which there were also spare quills, ink ottles and rolls of parchment.
Harry turned over his paper, his heart thumping hard - three rows to his right and four seats
ahead Hermione was already scriling - and lowered his eyes to the first question: a) Give the
incantation and ) descrie the wand movement required to make ojects fly.
Harry had a fleeting memory of a clu soaring high into the air and landing loudly on the thick
skull of a troll... smiling slightly, he ent over the paper and egan to write.
"Well, it wasn’t too ad, was it?" asked Hermione anxiously in the Entrance Hall two hours later, still clutching the exam paper. "I’m not sure I did myself justice on Cheering Charms, I just ran out of time. Did you put in the counter-charm for hiccoughs? I wasn’t, sure whether I ought to, it felt like too much - and on question twenty-three -"
"Hermione," said Ron sternly, "we’ve een through this efore... we’re not going through every
exam afterwards, it’s ad enough doing them once."
The fifth-years ate lunch with the rest of the school (the four house tales had reappeared for the
lunch hour), then they trooped off into the small chamer eside the Great Hall, where they were
to wait until called for their practical examination. As small groups of students were called
forwards in alphaetical order, those left ehind muttered incantations and practiced wand
movements, occasionally poking each other in the ack or eye y mistake.
Hermione’s name was called. Tremling, she left the chamer with Anthony Goldstein, Gregory
Goyle and Daphne Greengrass. Students who had already een tested did not return afterwards,
so Harry and Ron had no idea how Hermione had done.
"She’ll e fine, rememer she got a hundred and twelve percent on one of our Charms tests?"
said Ron.
Ten minutes later, Professor Flitwick called, "Parkinson, Pansy - Patil, Padma - Patil, Parvati -
Potter, Harry."
"Good luck," said Ron quietly. Harry walked into the Great Hall, clutching his wand so tightly
his hand shook.
"Professor Tofty is free, Potter," squeaked Professor Flitwick, who was standing just inside the
door. He pointed Harry towards what looked like the very oldest and aldest examiner who was
sitting ehind a small tale in a far corner, a short distance from Professor Marchanks, who was
halfway through testing Draco Malfoy.
"Potter, is it?" said Professor Tofty, consulting his notes and peering over his pince-nez at Harry
as he approached. "The famous Potter?"
Out of the corner of his eye, Harry distinctly saw Malfoy throw a scathing look over at him; the
wine-glass Malfoy had een levitating fell to the floor and smashed. Harry could not suppress a
grin; Professor Tofty smiled ack at him encouragingly.
"That’s it," he said in his quavery old voice, "no need to e nervous. Now, if I could ask you to
take this egg cup and make it do some cartwheels for me."
On the whole, Harry thought it went rather well. His Levitation Charm was certainly much etter
than Malfoy’s had een, though he wished he had not mixed up the incantations for Color
Change and Growth Charms, so that the rat he was supposed to e turning orange swelled
shockingly and was the size of a adger efore Harry could rectify his mistake. He was glad
Hermione had not een in the Hall at the time and neglected to mention it to her afterwards. He
could tell Ron, though; Ron had caused a dinner plate to mutate into a large mushroom and had
no idea how it had happened.
There was no time to relax that night; they went straight to the common room after dinner and
sumerged themselves in revision for Transfiguration next day; Harry went to ed with his head
uzzing with complex spell models and theories.
He forgot the definition of a Switching Spell during his written paper next morning ut thought
his practical could have een a lot worse. At least he managed to Vanish the whole of his iguana,
whereas poor Hannah Aott lost her head completely at the next tale and somehow managed
to multiply her ferret into a flock of flamingos, causing the examination to e halted for ten
minutes while the irds were captured and carried out of the Hall.
They had their Herology exam on Wednesday (other than a small ite from a Fanged Geranium,
Harry felt he had done reasonaly well); and then, on Thursday, Defense Against the Dark Arts.
Here, for the first time, Harry felt sure he had passed. He had no prolem with any of the written
questions and took particular pleasure, during the practical examination, in performing all the
counter-jinxes and defensive spells right in front of Umridge, who was watching coolly from
near the doors into the Entrance Hall.
"Oh, ravo!" cried Professor Tofty, who was examining Harry again, when Harry demonstrated a perfect Boggart anishing spell. "Very good indeed! Well, I think that’s all, Potter... unless..."
He leaned forwards a little.
"I heard, from my dear friend Tierius Ogden, that you can produce a Patronus? For a onus
point...?"
Harry raised his wand, looked directly at Umridge and imagined her eing sacked.
"Expecto patronum!"
His silver stag erupted from the end of his wand and cantered the length of the Hall. All of the
examiners looked around to watch its progress and when it dissolved into silver mist Professor
Tofty clapped his veined and knotted hands enthusiastically.
"Excellent!" he said. "Very well, Potter, you may go!"
As Harry passed Umridge eside the door, their eyes met. There was a nasty smile playing
around her wide, slack mouth, ut he did not care. Unless he was very much mistaken (and he
was not planning on telling anyody, in case he was), he had just achieved an ‘Outstanding’
OWL.
On Friday, Harry and Ron had a day off while Hermione sat her Ancient Runes exam, and as
they had the whole weekend in front of them they permitted themselves a reak from revision.
They stretched and yawned eside the open window, through which warm summer air was
wafting as they played wizard chess. Harry could see Hagrid in the distance, teaching a class on
the edge of the Forest. He was trying to guess what creatures they were examining - he thought it
must e unicorns, ecause the oys seemed to e standing ack a little - when the portrait hole
opened and Hermione clamered in, looking thoroughly ad-tempered.
"How were the Runes?" said Ron, yawning and stretching.
"I mistranslated ehwaz," said Hermione furiously. "It means partnership, not Defense; I mixed it
up with eihwaz."
"Ah well," said Ron lazily, "that’s only one mistake, isn’t it, you’ll still get -"
"Oh, shut up!" said Hermione angrily. "It could e the one mistake that makes the difference
etween a pass and a fail. And what’s more, someone’s put another Niffler in Umridge’s office.
I don’t know how they got it through that new door, ut I just walked past there and Umridge is
shrieking her head off - y the sound of it, it tried to take a chunk out of her leg -"
"Good," said Harry and Ron together.
"It is not good!" said Hermione hotly. "She thinks it’s Hagrid doing it, rememer? And we do not want Hagrid chucked out!"
"He’s teaching at the moment; she can’t lame him," said Harry, gesturing out of the window.
"Oh, you’re so naive sometimes, Harry.You really think Umridge will wait for proof?" said
Hermione, who seemed determined to e in a towering temper, and she swept off towards the
girls’ dormitories, anging the door ehind her.
"Such a lovely, sweet-tempered girl," said Ron, very quietly, prodding his queen forward to eat
up one of Harry’s knights.
Hermione’s ad mood persisted for most of the weekend, though Harry and Ron found it quite
easy to ignore as they spent most of Saturday and Sunday revising for Potions on Monday, the
exam which Harry had een looking forward to least - and which he was sure would e the
downfall of his amitions to ecome an Auror. Sure enough, he found the written paper difficult,
though he thought he might have got full marks on the question aout Polyjuice Potion; he could
descrie its effects accurately, having taken it illegally in his second year.
The afternoon practical was not as dreadful as he had expected it to e. With Snape asent from
the proceedings, he found that he was much more relaxed than he usually was while making
potions. Neville, who was sitting very near Harry, also looked happier than Harry had ever seen
him during a Potions class. When Professor Marchanks said, "Step away from your cauldrons,
please, the examination is over," Harry corked his sample flask feeling that he might not have
achieved a good grade ut he had, with luck, avoided a fail.
"Only four exams left," said Parvati Patil wearily as they headed ack to Gryffindor common
room.
"Only!" said Hermione snappishly. "I’ve got Arithmancy and it’s proaly the toughest suject
there is!"
Noody was foolish enough to snap ack, so she was unale to vent her spleen on any of them
and was reduced to telling off some first-years for giggling too loudly in the common room.
Harry was determined to perform well in Tuesdays Care of Magical Creatures exam so as not to
let Hagrid down. The practical examination took place in the afternoon on the lawn on the edge
of the Foridden Forest, where students were required to correctly identify the Knarl hidden
among a dozen hedgehogs (the trick was to offer them all milk in turn: Knarls, highly suspicious
creatures whose quills had many magical properties, generally went erserk at what they saw as
an attempt to poison them); then demonstrate correct handling of a Bowtruckle; feed and clean
out a Fire Cra without sustaining serious urns; and choose, from a wide selection of food, the
diet they would give a sick unicorn.
Harry could see Hagrid watching anxiously out of his cain window. When Harry’s examiner, a
plump little witch this time, smiled at him and told him he could leave, Harry gave Hagrid a
fleeting thums-up efore heading ack to the castle.
The Astronomy theory paper on Wednesday morning went well enough. Harry was not
convinced he had got the names of all Jupiter’s moons right, ut was at least confident that none
of them was inhaited y mice. They had to wait until evening for their practical Astronomy; the
afternoon was devoted instead to Divination.
Even y Harry’s low standards in Divination, the exam went very adly. He might as well have
tried to see moving pictures on the desktop as in the stuornly lank crystal all; he lost his
head completely during tea-leaf reading, saying it looked to him as though Professor Marchanks
would shortly e meeting a round, dark, soggy stranger, and rounded off the whole fiasco y
mixing up the life and head lines on her palm and informing her that she ought to have died the
previous Tuesday.
"Well, we were always going to fail that one," said Ron gloomily as they ascended the marle
staircase. He had just made Harry feel rather etter y telling him how he had told the examiner
in detail aout the ugly man with a wart on his nose in his crystal all, only to look up and realize
he had een descriing his examiner’s reflection.
"We shouldn’t have taken the stupid suject in the first place," said Harry.
"Still, at least we can give it up now."
"Yeah," said Harry. "No more pretending we care what happens when Jupiter and Uranus get too
friendly."
"And from now on, I don’t care if my tea-leaves spell die, Ron, die - I’m just chucking them in
the in where they elong."
Harry laughed just as Hermione came running up ehind them. He stopped laughing at once, in
case it annoyed her.
"Well, I think I’ve done all right in Arithmancy" she said, and Harry and Ron oth sighed with
relief. "Just time for a quick look over our star-charts efore dinner, then..."
When they reached the top of the Astronomy Tower at eleven o’clock, they found a perfect night
for stargazing, cloudless and still. The grounds were athed in silvery moonlight and there was a
slight chill in the air. Each of them set up his or her telescope and, when Professor Marchanks
gave the word, proceeded to fill in the lank star-chart they had een given.
Professors Marchanks and Tofty strolled among them, watching as they entered the precise
positions of the stars and planets they were oserving. All was quiet except for the rustle of
parchment, the occasional creak of a telescope as it was adjusted on its stand, and the scriling
of many quills. Half an hour passed, then an hour; the little squares of reflected gold light
flickering on the ground elow started to vanish as lights in the castle windows were
extinguished.
As Harry completed the constellation Orion on his chart, however, the front doors of the castle
opened directly elow the parapet where he was standing, so that light spilled down the stone
steps a little way across the lawn. Harry glanced down as he made a slight adjustment to the
position of his telescope and saw five or six elongated shadows moving over the rightly lit grass
efore the doors swung shut and the lawn ecame a sea of darkness once more.
Harry put his eye ack to his telescope and refocused it, now examining Venus. He looked down
at his chart to enter the planet there, ut something distracted him; pausing with his quill
suspended over the parchment, he squinted down into the shadowy grounds and saw half a dozen
figures walking over the lawn. If they had not een moving, and the moonlight had not een
gilding the tops of their heads, they would have een indistinguishale from the dark ground on
which they walked. Even at this distance, Harry had a funny feeling he recognized the walk of
the squattest of them, who seemed to e leading the group.
He could not think why Umridge would e taking a stroll outside after midnight, much less
accompanied y five others. Then someody coughed ehind him, and he rememered that he
was halfway through an exam. He had quite forgotten Venus’s position. Jamming his eye to his
telescope, he found it again and was once more aout to enter it on his chart when, alert for any
odd sound, he heard a distant knock which echoed through the deserted grounds, followed
immediately y the muffled arking of a large dog.
He looked up, his heart hammering. There were lights on in Hagrid’s windows and the people he
had oserved crossing the lawn were now silhouetted against them. The door opened and he
distinctly saw six sharply defined figures walk over the threshold. The door closed again and
there was silence.
Harry felt very uneasy. He glanced around to see whether Ron or Hermione had noticed what he
had, ut Professor Marchanks came walking ehind him at that moment and, not wanting to
look as though he was sneaking looks at anyone else’s work, Harry hastily ent over his starchart
and pretended to e adding notes to it while really peering over the top of the parapet
towards Hagrid’s cain. Figures were now moving across the cain windows, temporarily
locking the light.
He could feel Professor Marchanks’s eyes on the ack of his neck and pressed his eye again to
his telescope, staring up at the moon though he had marked its position an hour ago, ut as
Professor Marchanks moved on he heard a roar from the distant cain that echoed through the
darkness right to the top of the Astronomy Tower. Several of the people around Harry ducked
out from ehind their telescopes and peered instead in the direction of Hagrid’s cain.
Professor Tofty gave another dry little cough.
"Try and concentrate, now, oys and girls," he said softly.
Most people returned to their telescopes. Harry looked to his left. Hermione was gazing
transfixed at Hagrid’s cain.
"Ahem - twenty minutes to go," said Professor Tofty.
Hermione jumped and returned at once to her star-chart; Harry looked down at his own and
noticed that he had mislaelled Venus as Mars. He ent to correct it.
There was a loud BANG from the grounds. Several people cried ‘Ouch!’ when they poked
themselves in the face with the ends of their telescopes as they hastened to see what was going
on elow.
Hagrid’s door had urst open and y the light flooding out of the cain they saw him quite
clearly a massive figure roaring and randishing his fists, surrounded y six people, all of whom,
judging y the tiny threads of red light they were casting in his direction, seemed to e
attempting to Stun him.
"No!" cried Hermione.
"My dear!" said Professor Tofty in a scandalised voice. "This is an examination!"
But noody was paying the slightest attention to their star-charts any more. Jets of red light were
still flying aout eside Hagrid’s cain, yet somehow they seemed to e ouncing off him; he
was still upright and still, as far as Harry could see, fighting. Cries and yells echoed across the
grounds; a man yelled, "Be reasonale, Hagrid!"
Hagrid roared, "Reasonale e damned, yeh won’ take me like this, Dawlish!"
Harry could see the tiny outline of Fang, attempting to defend Hagrid, leaping repeatedly at the
wizards surrounding him until a Stunning Spell caught him and he fell to the ground. Hagrid
gave a howl of fury, lifted the culprit odily from the ground and threw him; the man flew what
looked like ten feet and did not get up again. Hermione gasped, oth hands over her mouth;
Harry looked round at Ron and saw that he, too, was looking scared. None of them had ever seen
Hagrid in a real temper efore.
"Look!" squealed Parvati, who was leaning over the parapet and pointing to the foot of the castle
where the front doors had opened again; more light was spilling out on to the dark lawn and a
single long lack shadow was now rippling across the lawn.
"Now, really!" said Professor Tofty anxiously. "Only sixteen minutes left, you know!"
But noody paid him the slightest attention: they were watching the person now sprinting
towards the attle eside Hagrid’s cain.
"How dare you!" the figure shouted as she ran. "How dare you!"
"It’s McGonagall!" whispered Hermione.
"Leave him alone! Alone, I say!" said Professor McGonagall’s voice through the darkness. "On
what grounds are you attacking him? He has done nothing, nothing to warrant such -"
Hermione, Parvati and Lavender all screamed. No fewer than four Stunners had shot from the figures around the cain toward Professor McGonagall. Halfway etween cain and castle the red eams collided with her; for a moment she looked luminous, illuminated y an eerie red glow, then was lifted right off her feet, landed hard on her ack, and moved no more.
"Galloping gargoyles!" shouted Professor Tofty, who seemed to have forgotten the exam
completely. "Not so much as a warning! Outrageous ehavior!"
"COWARDS!" ellowed Hagrid, his voice carring clearly to the top of the tower, and several
lights flickered ack on inside the castle. "RUDDY COWARDS! HAVE SOME O’ THAT - AN’ THAT -"
"Oh my --" gasped Hermione.
Hagrid took two massive swipes at his closest attackers; judging y their immediate collapse,
they had een knocked cold. Harry saw Hagrid doule over, and thought he had finally een
overcome y a spell. But, on the contrary, next moment Hagrid was standing again with what
appeared to e a sack on his ack - then Harry realized that Fang’s limp ody was draped around
his shoulders.
"Get him, get him!" screamed Umridge, ut her remaining helper seemed highly reluctant to go
within reach of Hagrid’s fists; indeed, he was acking away so fast he tripped over one of his
unconscious colleagues and fell over. Hagrid had turned and egun to run with Fang still hung
around his neck. Umridge sent one last Stunning Spell after him ut it missed; and Hagrid,
running full-pelt towards the distant gates, disappeared into the darkness.
There was a long minutes quivering silence as everyody gazed open-mouthed into the grounds.
Then Professor Tofty’s voice said feely, "Um... five minutes to go, everyody."
Though he had only filled in two-thirds of his chart, Harry was desperate for the exam to end.
When it came at last he, Ron and Hermione forced their telescopes haphazardly ack into their
holders and dashed ack down the spiral staircase. None of the students were going to ed; they
were all talking loudly and excitedly at the foot of the stairs aout what they had witnessed.
"That evil woman!" gasped Hermione, who seemed to e having difficulty talking due to rage.
"Trying to sneak up on Hagrid in the dead of night!"
"She clearly wanted to avoid another scene like Trelawney’s," said Ernie Macmillan sagely,
squeezing over to join them.
"Hagrid did well, didn’t he?" said Ron, who looked more alarmed than impressed. "How come all the spells ounced off him?"
"It’ll e his giant lood," said Hermione shakily. "Its very hard to Stun a giant, they’re like trolls,
really tough... ut poor Professor McGonagall... four Stunners straight in the chest and she’s not
exactly young, is she?"
"Dreadful, dreadful," said Ernie, shaking his head pompously. "Well, I’m off to ed. Night, all."
People around them were drifting away, still talking excitedly aout what they had just seen.
"At least they didn’t get to take Hagrid off to Azkaan," said Ron. "I ‘spect he’s gone to join
Dumledore, hasn’t he?"
"I suppose so," said Hermione, who looked tearful. "Oh, this is awful, I really thought
Dumledore would e ack efore long, ut now we’ve lost Hagrid too."
They traipsed ack to the Gryffindor common room to find it full. The commotion out in the
grounds had woken several people, who had hastened to rouse their friends. Seamus and Dean,
who had arrived ahead of Harry, Ron and Hermione, were now telling everyone what they had
seen and heard from the top of the Astronomy Tower.
"But why sack Hagrid now?" asked Angelina Johnson, shaking her head. "It’s not like
Trelawney; he’s een teaching much etter than usual this year!"
"Umridge hates part-humans," said Hermione itterly, flopping down into an armchair. "She
was always going to try and get Hagrid out."
"And she thought Hagrid was putting Nifflers in her office," piped up Katie Bell.
"Oh, limey," said Lee Jordan, covering his mouth. "It’s me who’s een putting the Nifflers in
her office. Fred and George left me a couple; I’ve een levitating them in through her window."
"She’d have sacked him anyway" said Dean. "He was too close to Dumledore."
"That’s true," said Harry, sinking into an armchair eside Hermione’s.
"I just hope Professor McGonagall’s all right," said Lavender tearfully.
"They carried her ack up to the castle, we watched through the dormitory window," said Colin
Creevey "She didn’t look very well."
"Madam Pomfrey will sort her out," said Alicia Spinnet firmly. "She’s never failed yet."
It was nearly four in the morning efore the common room cleared. Harry felt wide awake; the
image of Hagrid sprinting away into the dark was haunting him; he was so angry with Umridge
he could not think of a punishment ad enough for her, though Ron’s suggestion of having her
fed to a ox of starving Blast-Ended Skrewts had its merits. He fell asleep contemplating hideous
revenges and arose from ed three hours later feeling distinctly unrested.
Their final exam, History of Magic, was not to take place until that afternoon. Harry would very
much have liked to go ack to ed after reakfast, ut he had een counting on the morning for a
spot of last-minute revision, so instead he sat with his head in his hands y the common-room
window, trying hard not to doze off as he read through some of the notes stacked three-and-a-half feet high that Hermione had lent him.
The fifth-years entered the Great Hall at two o’clock and took their places in front of their facedown examination papers. Harry felt exhausted. He just wanted this to e over, so that he could go and sleep; then tomorrow, he and Ron were going to go down to the Quidditch pitch - he was going to have a fly on Rons room - and savor their freedom from revision.
"Turn over your papers," said Professor Marchanks from the front of the Hall, flicking over the
giant hour-glass. "You may egin."
Harry stared fixedly at the first question. It was several seconds efore it occurred to him that he
had not taken in a word of it; there was a wasp uzzing distractingly against one of the high
windows. Slowly, tortuously, he at last egan to write an answer.
He was finding it very difficult to rememer names and kept confusing dates. He simply skipped
question four (In your opinion, did wand legislation contriute to, or lead to etter control of,
golin riots of the eighteenth century?), thinking that he would go ack to it if he had time at the
end. He had a sta at question five (How wasthe Statute of Secrecy reached in 1749 and what
measures were introduced to prevent a recurrence?) ut had a nagging suspicion that he had
missed several important points; he had a feeling vampires had come into the story somewhere.
He looked ahead for a question he could definitely answer and his eyes alighted upon numer
ten: Descrie the circumstances that led to the form ation of the International Confederation of
Wizards and explain why the warlocks of Liechtenstein refused to join.
I know this, Harry thought, though his rain felt torpid and slack. He could visualize a heading,
in Hermione’s handwriting: The formation of the International Confederation of Wizards... he
had read those notes only this morning.
He egan to write, looking up now and again to check the large hour-glass on the desk eside
Professor Marchanks. He was sitting right ehind Parvati Patil, whose long dark hair fell elow
the ack of her chair. Once or twice he found himself staring at the tiny golden lights that
glistened in it when she moved her head slightly, and had to give his own head a little shake to
clear it.
... the first Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards was Pierre
Bonaccord, ut his appointment was contested y the wizarding community of Liechtenstein,
ecause -
All around Harry quills were scratching on parchment like scurrying, urrowing rats. The sun
was very hot on the ack of his head. What was it that Bonaccord had done to offend the wizards
of Liechtenstein? Harry had a feeling it had something to do with trolls... he gazed lankly at the
ack of Parvati’s head again. If he could only perform Legilimency and open a window in the
ack of her head and see what it was aout trolls that had caused the reach etween Pierre
Bonaccord and Liechtenstein...
Harry closed his eyes and uried his face in his hands, so that the glowing red of his eyelids grew
dark and cool. Bonaccord had wanted to stop troll-hunting and give the trolls rights... ut
Liechtenstein was having prolems with a trie of particularly vicious mountain trolls... that was
it.
He opened his eyes; they stung and watered at the sight of the lazing white parchment. Slowly,
he wrote two lines aout the trolls, then read through what he had done so far. It did not seem
very informative or detailed, yet he was sure Hermione’s notes on the Confederation had gone on
for pages and pages.
He closed his eyes again, trying to see them, trying to rememer... the Confederation had met
for the first time in France, yes, he had written that already...
Golins had tried to attend and een ousted... he had written that, too...
And noody from Liechtenstein had wanted to come...
Think, he told himself, his face in his hands, while all around him quills scratched out neverending answers and the sand trickled through the hour-glass at the front...
He was walking along the cool, dark corridor to the Department of Mysteries again, walking
with a firm and purposeful tread, reaking occasionally into a run, determined to reach his
destination at last... the lack door swung open for him as usual, and here he was in the circular
room with its many doors...
Straight across the stone floor and through the second door... patches of dancing light on the
walls and floor and that odd mechanical clicking, ut no time to explore, he must hurry...
He jogged the last few feet to the third door, which swung open just like the others...
Once again he was in the cathedral-sized room full of shelves and glass spheres... his heart was
eating very fast now... he was going to get there this time... when he reached numer ninety-seven he turned left and hurried along the aisle etween two rows...
But there was a shape on the floor at the very end, a lack shape moving on the floor like a
wounded animal... Harry’s stomach contracted with fear... with excitement...
A voice issued from his own mouth, a high, cold voice empty of any human kindness...
"Take it for me... lift it down, now... I cannot touch it... ut you can"
The lack shape on the floor shifted a little. Harry saw a long-fingered white hand clutching a
wand rise at the end of his own arm... heard the high, cold voice say "Crucio!"
The man on the floor let out a scream of pain, attempted to stand ut fell ack, writhing. Harry
was laughing. He raised his wand, the curse lifted and the figure groaned and ecame motionless.
"Lord Voldemort is waiting"
Very slowly, his arms tremling, the man on the ground raised his shoulders a few inches and
lifted his head. His face was loodstained and gaunt, twisted in pain yet rigid with defiance...
"You’ll have to kill me," whispered Sirius.
"Undoutedly I shall in the end," said the cold voice. "But you will fetch it for me first, Black...
you think you have felt pain thus far? Think again... we have hours ahead of us and noody to
hear you scream..."
But someody screamed as Voldemort lowered his wand again; someody yelled and fell
sideways off a hot desk on to the cold stone floor; Harry awoke as he hit the ground, still yelling,
his scar on fire, as the Great Hall erupted all around him.
CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
Out of the Fire
"I’m not going... I don’t need the hospital wing... I don’t want"
He was giering as he tried to pull away from Professor Tofty, who was looking at Harry with
much concern after helping him out into the Entrance Hall with the students all around them
staring.
"I’m - I’m fine, sir," Harry stammered, wiping the sweat from his face. "Really... I just fell
asleep... had a nightmare..."
"Pressure of examinations!" said the old wizard sympathetically, patting Harry shakily on the
shoulder. "It happens, young man, it happens! Now, a cooling drink of water, and perhaps you
will e ready to return to the Great Hall? The examination is nearly over, ut you may e ale to
round off your last answer nicely?"
"Yes," said Harry wildly. "I mean... no... I’ve done - done as much as I can, I think..."
"Very well, very well," said the old wizard gently. "I shall go and collect your examination paper
and I suggest that you go and have a nice lie down."
"I’ll do that," said Harry, nodding vigorously. "Thanks very much."
The second that the old man’s heels disappeared over the threshold into the Great Hall, Harry ran
up the marle staircase, hurtled along the corridors so fast the portraits he passed muttered
reproaches, up more flights of stairs, and finally urst like a hurricane through the doule doors
of the hospital wing, causing Madam Pomfrey - who had een spooning some right lue liquid
into Montague’s open mouth - to shriek in alarm.
"Potter, what do you think you’re doing?"
"I need to see Professor McGonagall," gasped Harry, the reath tearing his lungs. "Now... it’s
urgent!"
"She’s not here, Potter," said Madam Pomfrey sadly. "She was transferred to St. Mungo’s this
morning. Four Stunning Spells straight to the chest at her age? It’s a wonder they didn’t kill her."
"She’s... gone?" said Harry, shocked.
The ell rang just outside the dormitory and he heard the usual distant rumling of students
starting to flood out into the corridors aove and elow him. He remained quite still, looking at
Madam Pomfrey. Terror was rising inside him.
There was noody left to tell. Dumledore had gone, Hagrid had gone, ut he had always
expected Professor McGonagall to e there, irascile and inflexile, perhaps, ut always
dependaly, solidly present...
"I don’t wonder you’re shocked, Potter," said Madam Pomfrey, with a kind of fierce approval in
her face. "As if one of them could have Stunned Minerva McGonagall face-on y daylight!
Cowardice, that’s what it was... despicale cowardice... if I wasn’t worried what would happen
to you students without me, I’d resign in protest."
"Yes," said Harry lankly.
He wheeled around and strode lindly from the hospital wing into the teeming corridor where he
stood, uffeted y the crowd, panic expanding inside him like poison gas so that his head swam
and he could not think what to do...
Ron and Hermione, said a voice in his head.
He was running again, pushing students out of the way, olivious to their angry protests. He
sprinted ack down two floors and was at the top of the marle staircase when he saw them
hurrying towards him.
"Harry!" said Hermione at once, looking very frightened. "What happened? Are you all right?
Are you ill?"
"Where have you een?" demanded Ron.
"Come with me," Harry said quickly. "Come on, I’ve got to tell you something."
He led them along the first-floor corridor, peering through doorways, and at last found an empty
classroom into which he dived, closing the door ehind Ron and Hermione the moment they
were inside, and leaned against it, facing them.
"Voldemort’s got Sirius."
"What?"
"How d’you -?"
"Saw it. Just now. When I fell asleep in the exam."
"But - ut where? How?" said Hermione, whose face was white.
"I dunno how," said Harry. "But I know exactly where. There’s a room in the Department of
Mysteries full of shelves covered in these little glass alls and they’re at the end of row ninety-seven... he’s trying to use Sirius to get whatever it is he wants from in there... he’s torturing him... says he’ll end y killing him!"
Harry found his voice was shaking, as were his knees. He moved over to a desk and sat down on
it, trying to master himself.
"How’re we going to get there?" he asked them.
There was a moment’s silence. Then Ron said, "G-get there?"
"Get to the Department of Mysteries, so we can rescue Sirius!" Harry said loudly.
"But - Harry..." said Ron weakly.
"What? What?" said Harry.
He could not understand why they were oth gaping at him as though he was asking them
something unreasonale.
"Harry," said Hermione in a rather frightened voice, "er... how... how did Voldemort get into the Ministry of Magic without anyody realizing he was there?"
"How do I know?" ellowed Harry. "The question is how we’re going to get in there!"
"But... Harry, think aout this," said Hermione, taking a step towards him, "it’s five o’clock in
the afternoon... the Ministry of Magic must e full of workers... how would Voldemort and
Sirius have got in without eing seen? Harry... they’re proaly the two most wanted wizards in
the world... you think they could get into a uilding full of Aurors undetected?"
"I dunno, Voldemort used an Invisiility Cloak or something!" Harry shouted. "Anyway, the
Department of Mysteries has always een completely empty whenever I’ve een -"
"You’ve never een there, Harry," said Hermione quietly. "You’ve dreamed aout the place,
that’s all."
"They’re not normal dreams!" Harry shouted in her face, standing up and taking a step closer to
her in turn. He wanted to shake her. "How d’you explain Ron’s dad then, what was all that aout,
how come I knew what had happened to him?"
"He’s got a point," said Ron quietly, looking at Hermione.
"But this is just -- just sounds unlikely." said Hermione desperately. "Harry, how on earth could Voldemort have got hold of Sirius when he’s een in Grimmauld Place all the time?"
"Sirius might’ve cracked and just wanted some fresh air," said Ron, sounding worried. "He’s
een desperate to get out of that house for ages -"
"But why," Hermione persisted, "why on earth would Voldemort want to use Sirius to get the
weapon, or whatever the thing is?"
"I dunno, there could e loads of reasons!" Harry yelled at her. "Maye Sirius is just someone
Voldemort doesn’t care aout seeing hurt -"
"You know what, I’ve just thought of something," said Ron in a hushed voice. "Sirius’s rother
was a Death Eater, wasn’t he? Maye he told Sirius the secret of how to get the weapon!"
"Yeah - and that’s why Dumledore’s een so keen to keep Sirius locked up all the time!" said
Harry.
"Look, I’m sorry," cried Hermione, "ut neither of you is making sense, and we’ve got no proof
for any of this, no proof Voldemort and Sirius are even there -"
"Hermione, Harrys seen them!" said Ron, rounding on her.
"Okay," she said, looking frightened yet determined, "I’ve just got to say this -"
"What?"
"You... this isn’t a criticism, Harry! But you do... sort of... I mean - don’t you think you’ve got
a it of a - a -saving-people thing!" she said.
He glared at her.
"And what’s that supposed to mean, ‘a -saving-people thing’?"
"Well... you..." she looked more apprehensive than ever. "I mean... last year, for instance... in
the lake... during the Tournament... you shouldn’t have... I mean, you didn’t need to save that
little Delacour girl... you got a it... carried away..."
A wave of hot, prickly anger swept through Harrys ody; how could she remind him of that
lunder now?
"I mean, it was really great of you and everything," said Hermione quickly, looking positively
petrified at the look on Harrys face, "everyone thought it was a wonderful thing to do -"
"That’s funny," said Harry through gritted teeth, "ecause I definitely rememer Ron saying I’d
wasted time acting the hero... is that what you think this is? You reckon I want to act the hero
again?"
"No, no, no!" said Hermione, looking aghast. "That’s not what I mean at all!"
"Well, spit out what you’ve got to say, ecause we’re wasting time here!" Harry shouted.
"I’m trying to say - Voldemort knows you, Harry! He took Ginny down into the Chamer of
Secrets to lure you there, it’s the kind of thing he does, he knows you’re the - the sort of person
who’d go to Sirius’s aid! What if he’s just trying to get you into the Department of Myst--?"
"Hermione, it doesn’t matter if he’s done it to get me there or not - they’ve taken McGonagall to
St. Mungo’s, there isn’t anyone from the Order left at Hogwarts who we can tell, and if we don’t
go, Sirius is dead!"
"But Harry - what if your dream was - was just that, a dream?"
Harry let out a roar of frustration. Hermione actually stepped ack from him, looking alarmed.
"You don’t get it!" Harry shouted at her, "I’m not having nightmares, I’m not just dreaming!
What d’you think all the Occlumency was for, why d’you think Dumledore wanted me
prevented from seeing these things? Because they’re REAL, Hermione - Sirius is trapped, I’ve
seen him. Voldemort’s got him, and no one else knows, and that means we’re the only ones who
can save him, and if you don’t want to do it, fine, ut I’m going, understand? And if I rememer
rightly, you didn’t have a prolem with my saving-people thing when it was you I was saving
from the Dementors, or -" he rounded on Ron "- when it was your sister I was saving from the
Basilisk -"
"I never said I had a prolem!" said Ron heatedly.
"But Harry, you’ve just said it," said Hermione fiercely, "Dumledore wanted you to learn to shut these things out of your mind, if you’d done Occlumency properly you’d never have seen this -"
"IF YOU THINK I’M JUST GOING TO ACT LIKE I HAVEN’T SEEN -"
"Sirius told you there was nothing more important than you learning to close your mind!"
"WELL, I EXPECT HE’D SAY SOMETHING DIFFERENT IF HE KNEW WHAT I’D JUST-"
The classroom door opened. Harry, Ron and Hermione whipped around. Ginny walked in,
looking curious, closely followed y Luna, who as usual looked as though she had drifted in
accidentally.
"Hi," said Ginny uncertainly. "We recognized Harry’s voice. What are you yelling aout?"
"Never you mind," said Harry roughly.
Ginny raised her eyerows.
"There’s no need to take that tone with me," she said coolly, "I was only wondering whether I
could help."
"Well, you can’t," said Harry shortly.
"You’re eing rather rude, you know," said Luna serenely.
Harry swore and turned away. The very last thing he wanted now was a conversation with Luna
Lovegood.
"Wait," said Hermione suddenly. "Wait... Harry, they can help."
Harry and Ron looked at her.
"Listen," she said urgently, "Harry, we need to estalish whether Sirius really has left
Headquarters."
"I’ve told you, I saw -"
"Harry, I’m egging you, please!" said Hermione desperately. "Please let’s just check that Sirius
isn’t at home efore we go charging off to London. If we find out he’s not there, then I swear I
won’t try to stop you. I’ll come, I’ll d - do whatever it takes to try and save him."
"Sirius is eing tortured NOW!" shouted Harry. "We haven’t got time to waste."
"But if this is a trick of Voldemort’s, Harry, we’ve got to check, we’ve got to."
"How?" Harry demanded. "How’re we going to check?"
"We’ll have to use Umridge’s fire and see if we can contact him," said Hermione, who looked
positively terrified at the thought. "We’ll draw Umridge away again, ut we’ll need lookouts,
and that’s where we can use Ginny and Luna."
Though clearly struggling to understand what was going on, Ginny said immediately, "Yeah,
we’ll do it," and Luna said, "When you say ‘Sirius’, are you talking aout Stuy Boardman?"
Noody answered her.
"Okay," Harry said aggressively to Hermione, "Okay, if you can think of a way of doing this quickly, I’m with you, otherwise I’m going to the Department of Mysteries right now."
"The Department of Mysteries?" said Luna, looking mildly surprised. "But how are you going to
get there?"
Again, Harry ignored her.
"Right," said Hermione, twisting her hands together and pacing up and down etween the desks.
"Right... well... one of us has to go and find Umridge and - and send her off in the wrong
direction, keep her away from her office. They could tell her - I don’t know - that Peeves is up to
something awful as usual"
"I’ll do it," said Ron at once. "I’ll tell her Peeves is smashing up the Transfiguration department
or something, it’s miles away from her office. Come to think of it, I could proaly persuade
Peeves to do it if I met him on the way."
It was a mark of the seriousness of the situation that Hermione made no ojection to the
smashing up of the Transfiguration department.
"Okay," she said, her row furrowed as she continued to pace. "Now, we need to keep students
right away from her office while we force entry, or some Slytherins ound to go and tip her off."
"Luna and I can stand at either end of the corridor," said Ginny promptly, "and warn people not to go down there ecause someone’s let off a load of Garrotting Gas." Hermione looked surprised at the readiness with which Ginny had come up with this lie; Ginny shrugged and said, "Fred and George were planning to do it efore they left."
"Okay," said Hermione. "Well then, Harry, you and I will e under the Invisiility Cloak and we’ll sneak into the office and you can talk to Sirius -"
"He’s not there, Hermione!"
"I mean, you can - can check whether Sirius is at home or not while I keep watch, I don’t think
you should e in there alone, Lee’s already proved the windows a weak spot, sending those
Nifflers through it."
Even through his anger and impatience, Harry recognized Hermiones offer to accompany him
into Umridge’s office as a sign of solidarity and loyalty.
"I... okay, thanks," he muttered.
"Right, well, even if we do all of that, I don’t think we’re going to e ale to ank on more than
five minutes," said Hermione, looking relieved that Harry seemed to have accepted the plan, "not
with Filch and the wretched Inquisitorial Squad floating around."
"Five minutes’ll e enough," said Harry. "C’mon, let’s go -"
"Now?" said Hermione, looking shocked.
"Of course now!" said Harry angrily. "What did you think, we’re going to wait until after dinner
or something? Hermione, Sirius is eing tortured right now!"
"I - oh, all right," she said desperately. "You go and get the Invisiility Cloak and we’ll meet you
at the end of Umridge’s corridor, okay?"
Harry didn’t answer, ut flung himself out of the room and egan to fight his way through the
milling crowds outside. Two floors up he met Seamus and Dean, who hailed him jovially and
told him they were planning a dusk-till-dawn end-of-exams celeration in the common room.
Harry arely heard them. He scramled through the portrait hole while they were still arguing
aout how many lack-market Buttereers they would need and was climing ack out of it, the
Invisiility Cloak and Sirius’s knife secure in his ag, efore they noticed he had left them.
"Harry, d’you want to chip in a couple of Galleons? Harold Dingle reckons he could sell us some
Firewhisky -"
But Harry was already tearing away ack along the corridor, and a couple of minutes later was
jumping the last few stairs to join Ron, Hermione, Ginny and Luna, who were huddled together
at the end of Umridge’s corridor.
"Got it," he panted. "Ready to go, then?"
"All right," whispered Hermione as a gang of loud sixth-years passed them. "So Ron - you go and head Umridge off... Ginny, Luna, if you can start moving people out of the corridor... Harry and I will get the Cloak on and wait until the coast is clear..."
Ron strode away, his right-red hair visile right to the end of the passage; meanwhile Ginnys
equally vivid head oed etween the jostling students surrounding them in the other direction,
trailed y Luna’s londe one.
"Get over here," muttered Hermione, tugging at Harry’s wrist and pulling him ack into a recess
where the ugly stone head of a medieval wizard stood muttering to itself on a column. "Are - are
you sure you’re okay, Harry? You’re still very pale."
"I’m fine," he said shortly, tugging the Invisiil i ty Cloak from out of his ag. In truth, his scar
was aching, ut not so adly that he thought Voldemort had yet dealt Sirius a fatal low; it had
hurt much worse than this when Voldemort had een punishing Avery...
"Here," he said; he threw the Invisiility Cloak over oth of them and they stood listening
carefully over the Latin mumlings of the ust in front of them.
"You can’t come down here!" Ginny was calling to the crowd. "No, sorry, you’re going to have
to go round y the swivelling staircase, someone’s let off Garrotting Gas just along here -"
They could hear people complaining; one surly voice said, "I can’t see no gas."
"That’s ecause it’s colorless," said Ginny in a convincingly exasperated voice, "ut if you want to walk through it, carry on, then we’ll have your ody as proof for the next idiot who doesn’t elieve us."
Slowly, the crowd thinned. The news aout the Garrotting Gas seemed to have spread; people
were not coming this way any more. When at last the surrounding area was quite clear,
Hermione said quietly, "I think that’s as good as we’re going to get, Harry -- come on, let’s do
it."
They moved forwards, covered y the Cloak. Luna was standing with her ack to them at the far
end of the corridor. As they passed Ginny, Hermione whispered, "Good one... don’t forget the
signal."
"What’s the signal?" muttered Harry, as they approached Umridge’s door.
"A loud chorus of ‘Weasly is our King’ if they see Umridge coming," replied Hermione, as Harry inserted the lade of Sirius’s knife in the crack etween door and wall. The lock clicked open and they entered the office.
The garish kittens were asking in the late-afternoon sunshine that was warming their plates, ut
otherwise the office was as still and unoccupied as last time. Hermione reathed a sigh of relief.
"I thought she might have added extra security after the second Niffler."
They pulled off the Cloak; Hermione hurried over to the window and stood out of sight, peering
down into the grounds with her wand out. Harry dashed over to the fireplace, seized the pot of
Floo powder and threw a pinch into the grate, causing emerald flames to urst into life there. He
knelt down quickly, thrust his head into the dancing fire and cried, "Numer twelve, Grimmauld
Place!"
His head egan to spin as though he had just got off a fair-ground ride though his knees remained
firmly planted on the cold office floor. He kept his eyes screwed up against the whirling ash and
when the spinning stopped he opened them to find himself looking out at the long, cold kitchen
of Grimmauld Place.
There was noody there. He had expected this, yet was not prepared for the molten wave of
dread and panic that seemed to urst through his stomach at the sight of the deserted room.
"Sirius?" he shouted. "Sirius, are you there?"
His voice echoed around the room, ut there was no answer except a tiny scuffing sound to the
right of the fire.
"Who’s there?" he called, wondering whether it was just a mouse.
Kreacher the house-elf crept into view. He looked highly delighted aout something, though he
seemed to have recently sustained a nasty injury to oth hands, which were heavily andaged.
"It’s the Potter oy’s head in the fire," Kreacher informed the empty kitchen, stealing furtive,
oddly triumphant glances at Harry. "What has he come for, Kreacher wonders?"
"Where’s Sirius, Kreacher?" Harry demanded.
The house-elf gave a wheezy chuckle.
"Master has gone out, Harry Potter."
"Where’s he gone? Where’s he gone, Kreacher?"
Kreacher merely cackled.
"I’m warning you!" said Harry, fully aware that his scope for inflicting punishment upon
Kreacher was almost non-existent in this position. "What aout Lupin? Mad-Eye? Any of them,
are any of them there?"
"Noody here ut Kreacher!" said the elf gleefully, and turning away from Harry he egan to
walk slowly towards the door at the end of the kitchen. "Kreacher thinks he will have a little chat
with his mistress now, yes, he hasn’t had a chance in a long time, Kreacher’s master has een
keeping him away from her -"
"Where has Sirius gone?" Harry yelled after the elf. "Kreacher, has he gone to the Department of
Mysteries?"
Kreacher stopped in his tracks. Harry could just make out the ack of his ald head through the
forest of chair legs efore him.
"Master does not tell poor Kreacher where he is going," said the elf quietly.
"But you know!" shouted Harry. "Don’t you? You know where he is!"
There was a moment’s silence, then the elf let out his loudest cackle yet.
"Master will not come ack from the Department of Mysteries!" he said gleefully. "Kreacher and
his mistress are alone again!"
And he scurried forwards and disappeared through the door to the hall.
"You -!"
But efore he could utter a single curse or insult, Harry felt a great pain at the top of his head; he
inhaled a lot of ash and, choking, found himself eing dragged ackwards through the flames,
until with a horrile aruptness he was staring up into the wide, pallid face of Professor
Umridge who had dragged him ackwards out of the fire y the hair and was now ending his
neck ack as far as it would go, as though she were going to slit his throat.
"You think," she whispered, ending Harry’s neck ack even further, so that he was looking up at the ceiling, "that after two Nifflers I was going to let one more foul, scavenging little creature
enter my office without my knowledge? I had Stealth Sensoring Spells placed all around my
doorway after the last one got in, you foolish oy. Take his wand," she arked at someone he
could not see, and he felt a hand grope inside the chest pocket of his roes and remove the wand.
"Hers, too."
Harry heard a scuffle over y the door and knew that Hermione had also just had her wand
wrested from her.
"I want to know why you are in my office," said Umridge, shaking the fist clutching his hair so
that he staggered.
"I was - trying to get my Fireolt!" Harry croaked.
"Liar." She shook his head again. "Your Fireolt is under strict guard in the dungeons, as you
very well know, Potter. You had your head in my fire. With whom have you een
communicating?"
"No one -" said Harry, trying to pull away from her. He felt several hairs part company with his
scalp.
"Liar!" shouted Umridge. She threw him from her and he slammed into the desk. Now he could see Hermione pinioned against the wall y Millicent Bulstrode. Malfoy was leaning on the
windowsill, smirking as he threw Harry’s wand into the air one-handed and caught it again.
There was a commotion outside and several large Slytherins entered, each gripping Ron, Ginny,
Luna and - to Harry’s ewilderment - Neville, who was trapped in a stranglehold y Crae and
looked in imminent danger of suffocation. All four of them had een gagged.
"Got ‘em all," said Warrington, shoving Ron roughly forwards into the room. "That one," he
poked a thick finger at Neville, "tried to stop me taking her," he pointed at Ginny, who was trying to kick the shins of the large Slytherin girl holding her, "so I rought him along too."
"Good, good," said Umridge, watching Ginny’s struggles. "Well, it looks as though Hogwarts
will shortly e a Weasley-free zone, doesn’t it?"
Malfoy laughed loudly and sycophantically. Umridge gave her wide, complacent smile and
settled herself into a chintz-covered armchair, linking up at her captives like a toad in a
flowered.
"So, Potter," she said. "You stationed lookouts around my office and you sent this uffoon," she
nodded at Ron -- Malfoy laughed even louder - "to tell me the poltergeist was wreaking havoc in the Transfiguration department when I knew perfectly well that he was usy smearing ink on the eyepieces of all the school telescopes - Mr. Filch having just informed me so.
"Clearly, it was very important for you to talk to someody. Was it Alus Dumledore? Or the
half-reed, Hagrid? I dout it was Minerva McGonagall, I hear she is still too ill to talk to
anyone."
Malfoy and a few of the other memers of the Inquisitorial Squad laughed some more at that. Harry found he was so full of rage and hatred he was shaking.
"It’s none of your usiness who I talk to," he snarled.
Umridge’s slack face seemed to tighten.
"Very well," she said in her most dangerous and falsely sweet voice. "Very well, Mr Potter... I
offered you the chance to tell me freely. You refused. I have no alternative ut to force you.
Draco fetch Professor Snape."
Malfoy stowed Harry’s wand inside his roes and left the room smirking, ut Harry hardly
noticed. He had just realized something; he could not elieve he had een so stupid as to forget
it. He had thought that all the memers of the Order, all those who could help him save Sirius,
were gone - ut he had een wrong. There was still a memer of the Order of the Phoenix at
Hogwarts - Snape.
There was silence in the office except for the fidgetings and scufflings resulting from the
Slytherins’ efforts to keep Ron and the others under control. Ron’s lip was leeding on to
Umridge’s carpet as he struggled against Warrington’s half-nelson; Ginny was still trying to
stamp on the feet of the sixth-year girl who had oth her upper arms in a tight grip; Neville was
turning steadily more purple in the face while tugging at Crae’s arms; and Hermione was
attempting, in vain, to throw Millicent Bulstrode off her. Luna, however, stood limply y the side
of her captor, gazing vaguely out of the window as though rather ored y the proceedings.
Harry looked ack at Umridge, who was watching him closely. He kept his face delierately
smooth and lank as footsteps were heard in the corridor outside and Draco Malfoy entered the
room, closely followed y Snape.
"You wanted to see me, Headmistress?" said Snape, looking around at all the pairs of struggling
students with an expression of complete indifference.
"Ah, Professor Snape," said Umridge, smiling widely and standing up again. "Yes, I would like
another ottle of Veritaserum, as quick as you can, please."
"You took my last ottle to interrogate Potter," he said, surveying her coolly through his greasy
curtains of lack hair. "Surely you did not use it all? I told you that three drops would e
sufficient."
Umridge flushed.
"You can make some more, can’t you?" she said, her voice ecoming more sweetly girlish as it
always did when she was furious.
"Certainly," said Snape, his lip curling. "It takes a full moon-cycle to mature, so I should have it
ready for you in around a month."
"A month?" squawked Umridge, swelling toadishly. "A month? But I need it this evening,
Snape! I have just found Potter using my fire to communicate with a person or persons
unknown!"
"Really?" said Snape, showing his first, faint sign of interest as he looked round at Harry. "Well,
it doesn’t surprise me. Potter has never shown much inclination to follow school rules."
His cold, dark eyes were oring into Harry’s, who met his gaze unflinchingly, concentrating hard
on what he had seen in his dream, willing Snape to read it in his mind, to understand...
"I wish to interrogate him!" repeated Umridge angrily, and Snape looked away from Harry ack into her furiously quivering face. "I wish you to provide me with a potion that will force him to tell me the truth!"
"I have already told you," said Snape smoothly, "that I have no further stocks of Veritaserum.
Unless you wish to poison Potter - and I assure you I would have the greatest sympathy with you
if you did - I cannot help you. The only troule is that most venoms act too fast to give the victim
much time for truth-telling."
Snape looked ack at Harry, who stared at him, frantic to communicate without words.
Voldemort’s got Sirius in the Department of Mysteries, he thought desperately.Voldemort’s
got Sirius -
"You are on proation!" shrieked Professor Umridge, and Snape looked ack at her, his
eyerows slightly raised. "You are eing delierately unhelpful! I expected etter, Lucius Malfoy always speaks most highly of you! Now get out of my office!"
Snape gave her an ironic ow and turned to leave. Harry knew his last chance of letting the
Order know what was going on was walking out of the door.
"He’s got Padfoot!" he shouted. "He’s got Padfoot at the place where it’s hidden!"
Snape had stopped with his hand on Umridges door handle.
"Padfoot?" cried Professor Umridge, looking eagerly from Harry to Snape. "What is Padfoot?
Where what is hidden? What does he mean, Snape?"
Snape looked round at Harry. His face was inscrutale. Harry could not tell whether he had
understood or not, ut he did not dare speak more plainly in front of Umridge.
"I have no idea," said Snape coldly. "Potter, when I want nonsense shouted at me I shall give you a Baling Beverage. And Crae, loosen your hold a little. If Longottom suffocates it will
mean a lot of tedious paperwork and I am afraid I shall have to mention it on your reference if
ever you apply for a jo."
He closed the door ehind him with a snap, leaving Harry in a state of worse turmoil than efore:
Snape had een his very last hope. He looked at Umridge, who seemed to e feeling the same
way; her chest was heaving with rage and frustration.
"Very well," she said, and she pulled out her wand. "Very well...I am left with no alternative...
this is more than a matter of school discipline...this is an issue of Ministry security...yes...yes..."
She seemed to e talking herself into something. She was shifting her weight nervously from
foot to foot, staring at Harry, eating her wand against her empty palm and reathing heavily. As
he watched her, Harry felt horrily powerless without his own wand.
"You are forcing me, Potter... I do not want to," said Umridge, still moving restlessly on the
spot, "ut sometimes circumstances justify the use... I am sure the Minister will understand that I had no choice."
Malfoy was watching her with a hungry expression on his face.
"The Cruciatus Curse ought to loosen your tongue," said Umridge quietly.
"No!" shrieked Hermione. "Professor Umridge - it’s illegal."
But Umridge took no notice. There was a nasty, eager, excited look on her face that Harry had
never seen efore. She raised her wand.
"The Minister wouldn’t want you to reak the law, Professor Umridge!" cried Hermione.
"What Cornelius doesn’t know won’t hurt him," said Umridge, who was now panting slightly as she pointed her wand at different parts of Harry’s ody in turn, apparently trying to decide where it would hurt most. "He never knew I ordered Dementors to go after Potter last summer, ut he was delighted to e given the chance to expel him, all the same."
"It was you!" gasped Harry. "You sent the Dementors after me?"
"Someody had to act," reathed Umridge, as her wand came to rest pointing directly at Harrys
forehead. "They were all leating aout silencing you somehow - discrediting you - ut I was the one who actually did something aout it... only you wriggled out of that one, didn’t you, Potter? Not today though, not now -" And taking a deep reath, she cried, "Cruc--"
"NO!" shouted Hermione in a cracked voice from ehind Millicent Bulstrode. "No - Harry - we’ll have to tell her!"
"No way!" yelled Harry, staring at the little of Hermione he could see.
"We’ll have to, Harry, she’ll force it out of you anyway, what’s... what’s the point?"
And Hermione egan to cry weakly into the ack of Millicent Bulstrode’s roes. Millicent
stopped trying to squash her against the wall immediately and dodged out of her way looking
disgusted.
"Well, well, well!" said Umridge, looking triumphant. "Little Miss Question-all is going to give
us some answers! Come on then, girl, come on!"
"Er - my - nee - no!" shouted Ron through his gag.
Ginny was staring at Hermione as though she had never seen her efore. Neville, still choking
for reath, was gazing at her, too. But Harry had just noticed something. Though Hermione was
soing desperately into her hands, there was no trace of a tear.
"I’m - I’m sorry everyone," said Hermione. "But - I can’t stand it -"
"That’s right, that’s right, girl!" said Umridge, seizing Hermione y the shoulders, thrusting her into the aandoned chintz chair and leaning over her. "Now then... with whom was Potter
communicating just now?"
"Well," gulped Hermione into her hands, "well, he was trying to speak to Professor Dumledore."
Ron froze, his eyes wide; Ginny stopped trying to stamp on her Slytherin captor’s toes; and even
Luna looked mildly surprised. Fortunately, the attention of Umridge and her minions was
focused too exclusively upon Hermione to notice these suspicious signs.
"Dumledore?" said Umridge eagerly. "You know where Dumledore is, then?"
"Well... no" soed Hermione. "We’ve tried the Leaky Cauldron in Diagon Alley and the Three
Broomsticks and even the Hog’s Head -"
"Idiot girl - Dumledore won’t e sitting in a pu when the whole Ministry’s looking for him!"
shouted Umridge, disappointment etched in every sagging line of her face.
"But - ut we needed to tell him something important!" wailed Hermione, holding her hands
more tightly over her face, not, Harry knew, out of anguish, ut to disguise the continued
asence of tears.
"Yes?" said Umridge with a sudden resurgence of excitement. "What was it you wanted to tell
him?"
"We... we wanted to tell him it’s r - ready!" choked H ermione.
"What’s ready?" demanded Umridge, and now she graed Hermione’s shoulders again and
shook her slightly. "What’s ready, girl?"
"The... the weapon," said Hermione.
"Weapon? Weapon?" said Umridge, and her eyes seemed to pop with excitement. "You have
een developing some method of resistance? A weapon you could use against the Ministry? On
Professor Dumledore’s orders, of course?"
"Y -- y - yes," gasped Hermione, "ut he had to leave efore it was finished and n - n - now
we’ve finished it for him, and we c - c - can’t find him t - t - to tell him!"
"What kind of weapon is it?" said Umridge harshly, her stuy hands still tight on Hermione’s
shoulders.
"We don’t r - r - really understand it," said Hermione, sniffing loudly. "We j - j - just did what P - P - Professor Dumledore told us t - t - to do."
Umridge straightened up, looking exultant.
"Lead me to the weapon," she said.
"I’m not showing... them," said Hermione shrilly, looking around at the Slytherins through her
fingers.
"It is not for you to set conditions," said Professor Umridge harshly.
"Fine," said Hermione, now soing into her hands again. "Fine... let them see it, I hope they use it on you! In fact, I wish you’d invite loads and loads of people to come and see! Th - that would serve you right - oh, I’d love it if the wh - whole school knew where it was, and how to u - use it, and then if you annoy any of them they’ll e ale to s - sort you out!"
These words had a powerful impact on Umridge: she glanced swiftly and suspiciously around at
her Inquisitorial Squad, her ulging eyes resting for a moment on Malfoy, who was too slow to
disguise the look of eagerness and greed that had appeared on his face.
Umridge contemplated Hermione for another long moment, then spoke in what she clearly
thought was a motherly voice.
"All right, dear, let’s make it just you and me... and we’ll take Potter, too, shall we? Get up,
now."
"Professor," said Malfoy eagerly, "Professor Umridge, I think some of the Squad should come
with you to look after -"
"I am a fully qualified Ministry official, Malfoy, do you really think I cannot manage two
wandless teenagers alone?" asked Umridge sharply. "In any case, it does not sound as though
this weapon is something that schoolchildren should see. You will remain here until I return and
make sure none of these -" she gestured around at Ron, Ginny, Neville and Luna "- escape."
"All right," said Malfoy, looking sulky and disappointed.
"And you two can go ahead of me and show me the way" said Umridge, pointing at Harry and
Hermione with her wand. "Lead on."
CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE
Fight and Flight
Harry had no idea what Hermione was planning, or even whether she had a plan. He walked half
a pace ehind her as they headed down the corridor outside Umridge’s office, knowing it would
look very suspicious if he appeared not to know where they were going. He did not dare attempt
to talk to her; Umridge was walking so closely ehind them that he could hear her ragged
reathing.
Hermione led the way down the stairs into the Entrance Hall. The din of loud voices and the
clatter of cutlery on plates echoed from out of the doule doors to the Great Hall - it seemed
incredile to Harry that twenty feet away were people who were enjoying dinner, celerating the
end of exams, not a care in the world...
Hermione walked straight out of the oak front doors and down the stone steps into the almy
evening air. The sun was falling towards the tops of the trees in the Foridden Forest now, and as
Hermione marched purposefully across the grass - Umridge jogging to keep up - their long dark
shadows rippled over the grass ehind them like cloaks.
"It’s hidden in Hagrid’s hut, is it?" said Umridge eagerly in Harry’s ear.
"Of course not," said Hermione scathingly. "Hagrid might have set it off accidentally"
"Yes," said Umridge, whose excitement seemed to e mounting. "Yes, he would have done, of
course, the great half-reed oaf."
She laughed. Harry felt a strong urge to swing round and seize her y the throat, ut resisted. His
scar was throing in the soft evening air ut it had not yet urned white-hot, as he knew it
would if Voldemort had moved in for the kill.
"Then... where is it?" asked Umridge, with a hint of uncertainty in her voice as Hermione
continued to stride towards the Forest.
"In there, of course," said Hermione, pointing into the dark trees. "It had to e somewhere that
students weren’t going to find it accidentally, didn’t it?"
"Of course," said Umridge, though she sounded a little apprehensive now. "Of course... very
well, then... you two stay ahead of me."
"Can we have your wand, then, if we’re going first?" Harry asked her.
"No, I don’t think so, Mr. Potter," said Umridge sweetly, poking him in the ack with it. "The
Ministry places a rather higher value on my life than yours, I’m afraid."
As they reached the cool shade of the first trees, Harry tried to catch Hermiones eye; walking
into the Forest without wands seemed to him to e more foolhardy than anything they had done
so far this evening. She, however, merely gave Umridge a contemptuous glance and plunged
straight into the trees, moving at such a pace that Umridge, with her shorter legs, had difficulty
in keeping up.
"Is it very far in?" Umridge asked, as her roe ripped on a ramle.
"Oh yes," said Hermione, "yes, it’s well hidden."
Harry’s misgivings increased. Hermione was not taking the path they had followed to visit
Grawp, ut the one he followed three years ago to the lair of the monster Aragog. Hermione had
not een with him on that occasion; he douted she had any idea what danger lay at the end of it.
"Er - are you sure this is the right way?" he asked her pointedly.
"Oh yes," she said in a steely voice, crashing through the undergrowth with what he thought was
a wholly unnecessary amount of noise. Behind them, Umridge tripped over a fallen sapling.
Neither of them paused to help her up again; Hermione merely strode on, calling loudly over her
shoulder, "It’s a it further in!"
"Hermione, keep your voice down," Harry muttered, hurrying to catch up with her. "Anything
could e listening in here -"
"I want us heard," she answered quietly, as Umridge jogged noisily after them. "You’ll see..."
They walked on for what seemed a long time, until they were once again so deep into the Forest
that the dense tree canopy locked out all light. Harry had the feeling he had had efore in the
Forest, one of eing watched y unseen eyes.
"How much further?" demanded Umridge angrily from ehind him.
"Not far now!" shouted Hermione, as they emerged into a dim, dank clearing. "Just a little it -"
An arrow flew through the air and landed with a menacing thud in the tree just over her head. The air was suddenly full of the sound of hooves; Harry could feel the Forest floor tremling;
Umridge gave a little scream and pushed him in front of her like a shield -
He wrenched himself free of her and turned. Around fifty centaurs were emerging on every side,
their ows raised and loaded, pointing at Harry Hermione and Umridge. They acked slowly
into the center of the clearing, Umridge uttering odd little whimpers of terror. Harry looked
sideways at Hermione. She was wearing a triumphant smile.
"Who are you?" said a voice.
Harry looked left. The chestnut-odied centaur called Magorian was walking towards them out
of the circle: his ow, like those of the others, was raised. On Harry’s right, Umridge was still
whimpering, her wand tremling violently as she pointed it at the advancing centaur.
"I asked you who are you, human," said Magorian rou ghly.
"I am Dolores Umridge!" said Umridge in a high-p i tched, terrified voice. "Senior
Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic and Headmistress and High Inquisitor of Hogwarts!"
"You are from the Ministry of Magic?" said Magorian, as many of the centaurs in the
surrounding circle shifted restlessly.
"That’s right!" said Umridge, in an even higher voice, "so e very careful! By the laws laid
down y the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, any attack y
half-reeds such as yourselves on a human -"
"What did you call us?" shouted a wild-looking lack centaur, whom Harry recognized as Bane.
There was a great deal of angry muttering and tightening of owstrings around them.
"Don’t call them that!" Hermione said furiously, ut Umridge did not appear to have heard her.
Still pointing her shaking wand at Magorian, she continued, "Law Fifteen ‘B’ states clearly that
‘any attack y a magical creature who is deemed to have near-human intelligence, and therefore
considered responsile for its actions’ --"
"‘Near-human intelligence’?" repeated Magorian, as Bane and several others roared with rage and pawed the ground. "We consider that a great insult, human! Our intelligence, thankfully, far
outstrips your own."
"What are you doing in our Forest?" ellowed the hard-faced grey centaur Harry and Hermione
had seen on their last trip into the Forest. "Why are you here?"
"Your Forest?" said Umridge, shaking now not only with fright ut also, it seemed, with
indignation. "I would remind you that you live here only ecause the Ministry of Magic permits
you certain areas of land -"
An arrow flew so close to her head that it caught at her mousy hair in passing: she let out an earsplitting scream and threw her hands over her head, while some of the centaurs ellowed their
approval and others laughed raucously. The sound of their wild, neighing laughter echoing
around the dimly lit clearing and the sight of their pawing hooves was extremely unnerving.
"Whose Forest is it now, human?" ellowed Bane.
"Filthy half-reeds!" she screamed, her hands still tight over her head. "Beasts! Uncontrolled
animals!"
"Be quiet!" shouted Hermione, ut it was too late: Umridge pointed her wand at Magorian and
screamed, "Incarcerous!"
Ropes flew out of midair like thick snakes, wrapping themselves tightly around the centaur’s
torso and trapping his arms: he gave a cry of rage and reared on to his hind legs, attempting to
free himself, while the other centaurs charged.
Harry graed Hermione and pulled her to the ground; face down on the Forest floor, he knew a
moment of terror as hooves thundered around him, ut the centaurs leapt over and around them,
ellowing and screaming with rage.
"Nooooo!" he heard Umridge shriek. "Noooooo... I am Senior Undersecretary... you cannot -
Unhand me, you animals... nooooo!"
Harry saw a flash of red light and knew she had attempted to Stun one of them; then she
screamed very loudly. Lifting his head a few inches, Harry saw that Umridge had een seized
from ehind y Bane and lifted high into the air, wriggling and yelling with fright. Her wand fell
from her hand to the ground, and Harry’s heart leapt. If he could just reach it -
But as he stretched out a hand towards it, a centaur’s hoof descended upon the wand and it roke
cleanly in half.
"Now!" roared a voice in Harry’s ear and a thick hairy arm descended from thin air and dragged
him upright. Hermione, too, had een pulled to her feet. Over the plunging, many-colored acks
and heads of the centaurs, Harry saw Umridge eing orne away through the trees y Bane.
Screaming non-stop, her voice grew fainter and fainter until they could no longer hear it over the
trampling of hooves surrounding them.
"And these?" said the hard-faced, grey centaur holding Hermione.
"They are young," said a slow, doleful voice from ehind Harry. "We do not attack foals."
"They rought her here, Ronan," replied the centaur who had such a firm grip on Harry. "And
they are not so young... he is nearing manhood, this one."
He shook Harry y the neck of his roes.
"Please," said Hermione reathlessly, "please, don’t attack us, we don’t think like her, we aren’t
Ministry of Magic employees! We only came in here ecause we hoped you’d drive her off for
us."
Harry knew at once, from the look on the face of the grey centaur holding Hermione, that she
had made a terrile mistake in saying this. The grey centaur threw ack his head, his ack legs
stamping furiously, and ellowed, "You see, Ronan? They already have the arrogance of their
kind! So we were to do your dirty work, were we, human girl? We were to act as your servants,
drive away your enemies like oedient hounds?"
"No!" said Hermione in a horrorstruck squeak. "Please - I didn’t mean that! I just hoped you’d e ale to - to help us -"
But she seemed to e going from ad to worse.
"We do not help humans!" snarled the centaur holding Harry, tightening his grip and rearing a
little at the same time, so that Harry’s feet left the ground momentarily. "We are a race apart and
proud to e so. We will not permit you to walk from here, oasting that we did your idding!"
"We’re not going to say anything like that!" Harry shouted. "We know you didn’t do what you
did ecause we wanted you to -"
But noody seemed to e listening to him.
A earded centaur towards the ack of the crowd shouted, "They came here unasked, they must
pay the consequences!"
A roar of approval met these words and a dun-colored centaur shouted, "They can join the
woman!"
"You said you didn’t hurt the innocent!" shouted Hermione, real tears sliding down her face now. "We haven’t done anything to hurt you, we haven’t used wands or threats, we just want to go ack to school, please let us go ack -"
"We are not all like the traitor Firenze, human girl!" shouted the grey centaur, to more neighing
roars of approval from his fellows. "Perhaps you thought us pretty talking horses? We are an
ancient people who will not stand wizard invasions and insults! We do not recognize your laws,
we do not acknowledge your superiority, we are -"
But they did not hear what else centaurs were, for at that moment there came a crashing noise on
the edge of the clearing so loud that all of them, Harry, Hermione and the fifty or so centaurs
filling the clearing, looked around. Harry’s centaur let him fall to the ground again as his hands
flew to his ow and quiver of arrows. Hermione had een dropped, too, and Harry hurried
towards her as two thick tree trunks parted ominously and the monstrous form of Grawp the
giant appeared in the gap.
The centaurs nearest him acked into those ehind; the clearing was now a forest of ows and
arrows waiting to e fired, all pointing upwards at the enormous greyish face now looming over
them from just eneath the thick canopy of ranches. Grawp’s lopsided mouth was gaping
stupidly; they could see his ricklike yellow teeth glimmering in the half-light, his dull sludgecolored eyes narrowed as he squinted down at the creatures at his feet. Broken ropes trailed from oth ankles.
He opened his mouth even wider.
"Hagger."
Harry did not know what ‘hagger’ meant, or what language it was from, nor did he much care; he
was watching Grawp’s feet, which were almost as long as Harry’s whole ody. Hermione
gripped his arm tightly; the centaurs were quite silent, staring up at the giant, whose huge, round
head moved from side to side as he continued to peer amongst them as though looking for
something he had dropped.
"Hagger!" he said again, more insistently.
"Get away from here, giant!" called Magorian. "You are not welcome among us!"
These words seemed to make no impression whatsoever on Grawp. He stooped a little (the
centaurs’ arms tensed on their ows), then ellowed, "HAGGER!"
A few of the centaurs looked worried now. Hermione, however, gave a gasp.
"Harry!" she whispered. "I think he’s trying to say ‘Hagrid’!"
At this precise moment Grawp caught sight of them, the only two humans in a sea of centaurs.
He lowered his head another foot or so, staring intently at them. Harry could feel Hermione
shaking as Grawp opened his mouth wide again and said, in a deep, rumling voice, "Hermy."
"Goodness," said Hermione, gripping Harry’s arm so tightly it was growing num and looking as
though she was aout to faint, "he - he rememered!"
"HERMY!" roared Grawp. "WHERE HAGGER?"
"I don’t know!" squealed Hermione, terrified. "I’m sorry, Grawp, I don’t know!"
"GRAWP WANT HAGGER!"
One of the giant’s massive hands reached down. Hermione let out a real scream, ran a few steps
ackwards and fell over. Devoid of a wand, Harry raced himself to punch, kick, ite or
whatever else it took as the hand swooped towards him and knocked a snow-white centaur off
his legs.
It was what the centaurs had een waiting for -- Grawp’s outstretched fingers were a foot from
Harry when fifty arrows soared through the air at the giant, peppering his enormous face, causing
him to howl with pain and rage and straighten up, ruing his face with his enormous hands,
reaking off the arrow shafts ut forcing the arrowheads in still deeper.
He yelled and stamped his enormous feet and the centaurs scattered out of the way; pele-sized
droplets of Grawp’s lood showered Harry as he pulled Hermione to her feet and the pair of
them ran as fast as they could for the shelter of the trees. Once there they looked ack; Grawp
was snatching lindly at the centaurs as lood ran down his face; they were retreating in
disorder, galloping away through the trees on the other side of the clearing. Harry and Hermione
watched Grawp give another roar of fury and plunge after them, smashing more trees aside as he
went.
"Oh no," said Hermione, quaking so adly that her knees gave way. "Oh, that was horrile. And
he might kill them all."
"I’m not that fussed, to e honest," said Harry itterly.
The sounds of the galloping centaurs and the lundering giant grew fainter and fainter. As Harry
listened to them, his scar gave another great thro and a wave of terror swept over him.
They had wasted so much time - they were even further from rescuing Sirius than they had een
when he had had the vision. Not only had Harry managed to lose his wand ut they were stuck in
the middle of the Foridden Forest with no means of transport whatsoever.
"Smart plan," he spat at Hermione, having to release some of his fury. "Really smart plan. Where
do we go from here?"
"We need to get ack up to the castle," said Hermione faintly.
"By the time we’ve done that, Sirius’ll proaly e dead!" said Harry, kicking a neary tree in
temper. A high-pitched chattering started up overhead and he looked up to see an angry
Bowtruckle flexing its long twiglike fingers at him.
"Well, we can’t do anything without wands," said Hermione hopelessly, dragging herself up
again. "Anyway, Harry, how exactly were you planning to get all the way to London?"
"Yeah, we were just wondering that," said a familiar voice from ehind her.
Harry and Hermione moved together instinctively and peered through the trees.
Ron came into sight, closely followed y Ginny, Neville and Luna. All of them looked a little the
worse for wear - there were several long scratches running the length of Ginny’s cheek; a large
purple lump was swelling aove Neville’s right eye; Ron’s lip was leeding worse than ever -
ut all were looking rather pleased with themselves.
"So," said Ron, pushing aside a low-hanging ranch and holding out Harry’s wand, "had any
ideas?"
"How did you get away?" asked Harry in amazement, taking his wand from Ron.
"Couple of Stunners, a Disarming Charm, Neville rought off a really nice little Impediment
Jinx," said Ron airily, now handing ack Hermione’s wand, too. "But Ginny was est, she got
Malfoy - Bat Bogey Hex - it was super, his whole face was covered in the great flapping things.
Anyway, we saw you out of the window heading into the Forest and followed. What’ve you done
with Umridge?"
"She got carried away," said Harry. "By a herd of centaurs."
"And they left you ehind?" asked Ginny, looking astonished.
"No, they got chased off y Grawp," said Harry
"Who’s Grawp?" Luna asked interestedly.
"Hagrid’s little rother," said Ron promptly. "Anyway, never mind that now. Harry, what did you find out in the fire? Has You-Know-Who got Sirius or -?"
"Yes," said Harry, as his scar gave another painful prickle, "and I’m sure Sirius is still alive, ut I can’t see how we’re going to get there to help him."
They all fell silent, looking rather scared; the prolem facing them seemed insurmountale.
"Well, we’ll have to fly, won’t we?" said Luna, in the closest thing to a matter-of-fact voice
Harry had ever heard her use.
"Okay," said Harry irritaly, rounding on her. "First of all, ‘we’ aren’t doing anything if you’re
including yourself in that, and second of all, Ron’s the only one with a roomstick that isn’t
eing guarded y a security troll, so -"
"I’ve got a room!" said Ginny.
"Yeah, ut you’re not coming," said Ron angrily.
"Excuse me, ut I care what happens to Sirius as much as you do!" said Ginny, her jaw set so that her resemlance to Fred and George was suddenly striking.
"You’re too -" Harry egan, ut Ginny said fiercely, "I’m three years older than you were when
you fought You-Know-Who over the Sorcerer’s Stone, and it’s ecause of me that Malfoy’s
stuck ack in Umridge’s office with giant flying ogies attacking him -"
"Yeah, ut -"
"We were all in the D.A, together," said Neville quietly. "It was all supposed to e aout fighting
You-Know-Who, wasn’t it? And this is the first chance we’ve had to do something real - or was
that all just a game or something?"
"No -- of course it wasn’t -" said Harry impatiently.
"Then we should come too," said Neville simply. "We want to help."
"That’s right," said Luna, smiling happily.
Harry’s eyes met Ron’s. He knew Ron was thinking exactly what he was: if he could have
chosen any memers of the D.A., in addition to himself, Ron and Hermione, to join him in the
attempt to rescue Sirius, he would not have picked Ginny, Neville or Luna.
"Well, it doesn’t matter, anyway," said Harry through gritted teeth, "ecause we still don’t know
how to get there -"
"I thought we’d settled that," said Luna maddeningly. "We’re flying!"
"Look," said Ron, arely containing his anger, "you might e ale to fly without a roomstick ut the rest of us can’t sprout wings whenever we -"
"There are ways of flying other than with roomsticks," said Luna serenely.
"I s’pose we’re going to ride on the ack of the Kacky Snorgle or whatever it is?" Ron
demanded.
"The Crumple-Horned Snorkack can’t fly," said Luna in a dignified voice, "ut they can, and
Hagrid says they’re very good at finding places their riders are looking for."
Harry whirled round. Standing etween two trees, their white eyes gleaming eerily, were two
Thestrals, watching the whispered conversation as though they understood every word.
"Yes!" he whispered, moving towards them. They tossed their reptilian heads, throwing ack
long lack manes, and Harry stretched out his hand eagerly and patted the nearest one’s shining
neck; how could he ever have thought them ugly?
"Is it those mad horse things?" said Ron uncertainly, staring at a point slightly to the left of the
Thestral Harry was patting. "Those ones you can’t see unless you’ve watched someone snuff it?"
"Yeah," said Harry.
"How many?"
"Just two."
"Well, we need three," said Hermione, who was still looking a little shaken, ut determined just
the same.
"Four, Hermione," said Ginny, scowling.
"I think there are six of us, actually," said Luna calmly, counting.
"Don’t e stupid, we can’t all go!" said Harry angrily. "Look, you three -" he pointed at Neville,
Ginny and Luna, "you’re not involved in this, you’re not -"
They urst into more protests. His scar gave another, more painful, twinge. Every moment they
delayed was precious; he did not have time to argue.
"Okay, fine, it’s your choice," he said curtly, "ut unless we can find more Thestrals you’re not
going to e ale -"
"Oh, more of them will come," said Ginny confidently, who like Ron was squinting in quite the
wrong direction, apparently under the impression that she was looking at the horses.
"What makes you think that?"
"Because, in case you hadn’t noticed, you and Hermione are oth covered in lood," she said
coolly, "and we know Hagrid lures Thestrals with raw meat. That’s proaly why these two
turned up in the first place."
Harry felt a soft tug on his roes at that moment and looked down to see the closest Thestral
licking his sleeve, which was damp with Grawp’s lood.
"Okay, then," he said, a right idea occurring, "Ron and I will take these two and go ahead, and
Hermione can stay here with you three and she’ll attract more Thestrals -"
"I’m not staying ehind!" said Hermione furiously.
"There’s no need," said Luna, smiling. "Look, here come more now... you two must really
smell..."
Harry turned: no fewer than six or seven Thestrals were picking their way through the trees, their
great leathery wings folded tight to their odies, their eyes gleaming through the darkness. He
had no excuse now.
"All right," he said angrily, "pick one and get on, then."
CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR
The Department of Mysteries
Harry wound his hand tightly into the mane of the nearest Thestral, placed a foot on a stump
neary and scramled clumsily on to the horses silken ack. It did not oject, ut twisted its head
around, fangs ared, and attempted to continue its eager licking of his roes.
He found there was a way of lodging his knees ehind the wing joints that made him feel more
secure, then looked around at the others. Neville had heaved himself over the ack of the next
Thestral and was now attempting to swing one short leg over the creature’s ack. Luna was
already in place, sitting side-saddle and adjusting her roes as though she did this every day.
Ron, Hermione and Ginny, however, were still standing motionless on the spot, open-mouthed
and staring.
"What?" he said.
"How’re we supposed to get on?" said Ron faintly. "When we can’t see the things?"
"Oh, it’s easy," said Luna, sliding oligingly from her Thestral and marching over to him,
Hermione and Ginny. "Come here..."
She pulled them over to the other Thestrals standing around and one y one managed to help
them on to the ack of their mount. All three looked extremely nervous as she wound their hands
into their horses mane and told them to grip tightly efore she got ack on to her own steed.
"This is mad," Ron murmured, moving his free hand gingerly up and down his horse’s neck.
"Mad... if I could just see it -"
"You’d etter hope it stays invisile," said Harry darkly. "We all ready, then?"
They all nodded and he saw five pairs of knees tighten eneath their roes.
"Okay..."
He looked down at the ack of his Thestral’s glossy lack head and swallowed.
"Ministry of Magic, visitors’ entrance, London, then," he said uncertainly. "Er... if you know...
where to go..."
For a moment Harry’s Thestral did nothing at all; then, with a sweeping movement that nearly
unseated him, the wings on either side extended; the horse crouched slowly, then rocketed
upwards so fast and so steeply that Harry had to clench his arms and legs tightly around the horse
to avoid sliding ackwards over its ony rump. He closed his eyes and pressed his face down
into the horse’s silky mane as they urst through the topmost ranches of the trees and soared out
into a lood-red sunset.
Harry did not think he had ever moved so fast: the Thestral streaked over the castle, its wide
wings hardly eating; the cooling air was slapping Harry’s face; eyes screwed up against the
rushing wind, he looked round and saw his five fellows soaring along ehind him, each of them
ent as low as possile into the neck of their Thestral to protect themselves from his slipstream.
They were over the Hogwarts grounds, they had passed Hogsmeade; Harry could see mountains
and gullies elow them. As the daylight egan to fail, Harry saw small collections of lights as
they passed over more villages, then a winding road on which a single car was eetling its way
home through the hills...
"This is izarre!" Harry arely heard Ron yell from somewhere ehind him, and he imagined
how it must feel to e speeding along at this height with no visile means of support.
Twilight fell: the sky was turning to a light, dusky purple littered with tiny silver stars, and soon
only the lights of Muggle towns gave them any clue of how far from the ground they were, or
how very fast they were traveling. Harry’s arms were wrapped tightly around his horses neck as
he willed it to go even faster. How much time had elapsed since he had seen Sirius lying on the
Department of Mysteries floor? How much longer would Sinus e ale to resist Voldemort? All
Harry knew for sure was that his godfather had neither done as Voldemort wanted, nor died, for
he was convinced that either outcome would have caused him to feel Voldemort’s juilation or
fury course through his own ody, making his scar sear as painfully as it had on the night Mr.
Weasley was attacked.
On they flew through the gathering darkness; Harry’s face felt stiff and cold, his legs num from
gripping the Thestrals sides so tightly, ut he did not dare shift his position lest he slip... he was
deaf from the thundering rush of air in his ears, and his mouth was dry and frozen from the cold
night wind. He had lost all sense of how far they had come; all his faith was in the east eneath
him, still streaking purposefully through the night, arely flapping its wings as it sped ever
onwards.
If they were too late...
He’s still alive, he’s still fighting, I can feel it...
If Voldemort decided Sirius was not going to crack...
I’d know...
Harrys stomach gave a jolt; the Thestrals head was suddenly pointing towards the ground and he
actually slid forwards a few inches along its neck. They were descending at last... he thought he
heard a shriek ehind him and twisted around dangerously, ut could see no sign of a falling
ody... presumaly they had all received a shock from the change of direction, just as he had.
And now right orange lights were growing larger and rounder on all sides; they could see the
tops of uildings, streams of headlights like luminous insect eyes, squares of pale yellow that
were windows. Quite suddenly, it seemed, they were hurtling towards the pavement; Harry
gripped the Thestral with every last ounce of his strength, raced for a sudden impact, ut the
horse touched the dark ground as lightly as a shadow and Harry slid from its ack, looking
around at the street where the overflowing skip still stood a short way from the vandalized
telephone ox, oth drained of color in the flat orange glare of the streetlights.
Ron landed a short way off and toppled immediately from his Thestral on to the pavement.
"Never again," he said, struggling to his feet. He made as though to stride away from his
Thestral, ut, unale to see it, collided with its hindquarters and almost fell over again. "Never,
ever again... that was the worst -"
Hermione and Ginny touched down on either side of him: oth slid off their mounts a little more
gracefully than Ron, though with similar expressions of relief at eing ack on firm ground;
Neville jumped down, shaking; and Luna dismounted smoothly.
"Where do we go from here, then?" she asked Harry in a politely interested voice, as though this
was all a rather interesting day-trip.
"Over here," he said. He gave his Thestral a quick, grateful pat, then led the way quickly to the
attered telephone ox and opened the door. "Come on!" he urged the others, as they hesitated.
Ron and Ginny marched in oediently; Hermione, Neville and Luna squashed themselves in after
them; Harry took one glance ack at the Thestrals, now foraging for scraps of rotten food inside
the skip, then forced himself into the ox after Luna.
"Whoever’s nearest the receiver, dial six two four four two!" he said.
Ron did it, his arm ent izarrely to reach the dial; as it whirred ack into place the cool female
voice sounded inside the ox.
"Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and usiness."
"Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger," Harry said very quickly, "Ginny Weasley,
Neville Longottom, Luna Lovegood... we’re here to save someone, unless your Ministry can
do it first!"
"Thank you," said the cool female voice. "Visitors, please take the adges and attach them to the
front of your roes."
Half a dozen adges slid out of the metal chute where returned coins normally appeared.
Hermione scooped them up and handed them mutely to Harry over Ginny’s head; he glanced at
the topmost one, Harry Potter, Rescue Mission.
"Visitors to the Ministry, you are required to sumit to a search and present your wands for
registration at the security desk, which is located at the far end of the Atrium."
"Fine!" Harry said loudly, as his scar gave another thro. "Now can we move?"
The floor of the telephone ox shuddered and the pavement rose up past its glass windows; the
scavenging Thestrals were sliding out of sight; lackness closed over their heads and with a dull
grinding noise they sank down into the depths of the Ministry of Magic.
A chink of soft golden light hit their feet and, widening, rose up their odies. Harry ent his
knees and held his wand as ready as he could in such cramped conditions as he peered through
the glass to see whether anyody was waiting for them in the Atrium, ut it seemed to e
completely empty. The light was dimmer than it had een y day; there were no fires urning
under the mantelpieces set into the walls, ut as the lift slid smoothly to a halt he saw that golden
symols continued to twist sinuously in the dark lue ceiling.
"The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant evening," said the woman’s voice.
The door of the telephone ox urst open; Harry toppled out of it, closely followed y Neville
and Luna. The only sound in the Atrium was the steady rush of water from the golden fountain,
where jets from the wands of the witch and wizard, the point of the centaur’s arrow, the tip of the
golin’s hat and the house-elf’s ears continued to gush into the surrounding pool.
"Come on," said Harry quietly and the six of them sprinted off down the hall, Harry in the lead,
past the fountain towards the desk where the security man who had weighed Harry’s wand had
sat, and which was now deserted.
Harry felt sure there ought to e a security person there, sure that their asence was an ominous sign, and his feeling of foreoding increased as they passed through the golden gates to the lifts. He pressed the nearest ‘down’ utton and a lift clattered into sight almost immediately, the golden grilles slid apart with a great, echoing clanking and they dashed inside. Harry staed the
numer nine utton; the grilles closed with a ang and the lift egan to descend, jangling and
rattling. Harry had not realized how noisy the lifts were on the day he had come with Mr.
Weasley; he was sure the din would raise every security person within the uilding, yet when the
lift halted, the cool female voice said, "Department of Mysteries," and the grilles slid open. They
stepped out into the corridor where nothing was moving ut the nearest torches, flickering in the
rush of air from the lift.
Harry turned towards the plain lack door. After months and months of dreaming aout it, he
was here at last.
"Let’s go," he whispered, and he led the way down t he corridor, Luna right ehind him, gazing
around with her mouth slightly open.
"Okay, listen," said Harry stopping again within six feet of the door. "Maye... maye a couple of people should stay here as a -- as a lookout, and --"
"And how’re we going to let you know something’s coming?" asked Ginny, her eyerows raised.
"You could e miles away."
"We’re coming with you, Harry," said Neville.
"Let’s get on with it," said Ron firmly.
Harry still did not want to take them all with him, ut it seemed he had no choice. He turned to
face the door and walked forwards... just as it had in his dream, it swung open and he marched
over the threshold, the others at his heels.
They were standing in a large, circular room. Everything in here was lack including the floor
and ceiling; identical, unmarked, handleless lack doors were set at intervals all around the lack
walls, interspersed with ranches of candles whose flames urned lue; their cool, shimmering
light reflected in the shining marle floor made it look as though there was dark water underfoot.
"Someone shut the door," Harry muttered.
He regretted giving this order the moment Neville had oeyed it. Without the long chink of light
from the torchlit corridor ehind them, the place ecame so dark that for a moment the only
things they could see were the unches of shivering lue flames on the walls and their ghostly
reflections in the floor.
In his dream, Harry had always walked purposefully across this room to the door immediately
opposite the entrance and walked on. But there were around a dozen doors here. Just as he was
gazing ahead at the doors opposite him, trying to decide which was the right one, there was a
great rumling noise and the candles egan to move sideways. The circular wall was rotating.
Hermione graed Harry’s arm as though frightened the floor might move, too, ut it did not.
For a few seconds, the lue flames around them were lurred to resemle neon lines as the wall
sped around; then, quite as suddenly as it had started, the rumling stopped and everything
ecame stationary once again.
Harry’s eyes had lue streaks urned into them; it was all he could see.
"What was that aout?" whispered Ron fearfully.
"I think it was to stop us knowing which door we came in through," said Ginny in a hushed
voice.
Harry realized at once she was right: he could no sooner identify the exit door than locate an ant
on the jet-lack floor; and the door through which they needed to proceed could e any one of the dozen surrounding them.
"How’re we going to get ack out?" said Neville uncomfortaly.
"Well, that doesn’t matter now," said Harry forcefully, linking to try to erase the lue lines from his vision, and clutching his wand tighter than ever, "we won’t need to get out till we’ve found Sirius -"
"Don’t go calling for him, though!" Hermione said urgently; ut Harry had never needed her
advice less, his instinct was to keep as quiet as possile.
"Where do we go, then, Harry?" Ron asked.
"I don’t -" Harry egan. He swallowed. "In the dreams I went through the door at the end of the
corridor from the lifts into a dark room - that’s this one - and then I went through another door
into a room that kind of... glitters. We should try a few doors," he said hastily, "I’ll know the
right way when I see it. C’mon."
He marched straight at the door now facing him, the others following close ehind him, set his
left hand against its cool, shining surface, raised his wand ready to strike the moment it opened,
and pushed.
It swung open easily.
After the darkness of the first room, the lamps hanging low on golden chains from this ceiling
gave the impression that this long rectangular room was much righter, though there were no
glittering, shimmering lights as Harry had seen in his dreams. The place was quite empty except
for a few desks and, in the very middle of the room, an enormous glass tank of deep green liquid,
ig enough for all of them to swim in; a numer of pearly-white ojects were drifting around
lazily in it.
"What’re those things?" whispered Ron.
"Dunno," said Harry.
"Are they fish?" reathed Ginny.
"Aquavirius Maggots!" said Luna excitedly. "Dad said the Ministry were reeding --"
"No," said Hermione. She sounded odd. She moved forward to look through the side of the tank.
"They’re rains."
"Brains?"
"Yes... I wonder what they’re doing with them?"
Harry joined her at the tank. Sure enough, there could e no mistake now he saw them at close
quarters. Glimmering eerily, they drifted in and out of sight in the depths of the green liquid,
looking something like slimy cauliflowers.
"Let’s get out of here," said Harry. "This isn’t right, we need to try another door."
"There are doors here, too," said Ron, pointing around the walls. Harry’s heart sank; how ig was this place?
"In my dream I went through that dark room into the second one," he said. "I think we should go
ack and try from there."
So they hurried ack into the dark, circular room; the ghostly shapes of the rains were now
swimming efore Harry’s eyes instead of the lue candle flames.
"Wait!" said Hermione sharply, as Luna made to close the door of the rain room ehind them.
"Flagrate!"
She drew with her wand in midair and a fiery ‘X’ appeared on the door. No sooner had the door
clicked shut ehind them than there was a great rumling, and once again the wall egan to
revolve very fast, ut now there was a great red-gold lur in amongst the faint lue and, when all
ecame still again, the fiery cross still urned, showing the door they had already tried.
"Good thinking," said Harry. "Okay, let’s try this one -"
Again, he strode directly at the door facing him and pushed it open, his wand still raised, the
others at his heels.
This room was larger than the last, dimly lit and rectangular, and the center of it was sunken,
forming a great stone pit some twenty feet deep. They were standing on the topmost tier of what
seemed to e stone enches running all around the room and descending in steep steps like an
amphitheatre, or the courtroom in which Harry had een tried y the Wizengamot. Instead of a
chained chair, however, there was a raised stone dais in the center of the pit, on which stood a
stone archway that looked so ancient, cracked and crumling that Harry was amazed the thing
was still standing. Unsupported y any surrounding wall, the archway was hung with a tattered
lack curtain or veil which, despite the complete stillness of the cold surrounding air, was
fluttering very slightly as though it had just een touched.
"Who’s there?" said Harry, jumping down on to the ench elow. There was no answering voice,
ut the veil continued to flutter and sway.
"Careful!" whispered Hermione.
Harry scramled down the enches one y one until he reached the stone ottom of the sunken
pit. His footsteps echoed loudly as he walked slowly towards the dais. The pointed archway
looked much taller from where he now stood than it had when he’d een looking down on it
from aove. Still the veil swayed gently, as though someody had just passed through it.
"Sirius?" Harry spoke again, ut more quietly now that he was nearer.
He had the strangest feeling that there was someone standing right ehind the veil on the other
side of the archway. Gripping his wand very tightly, he edged around the dais, ut there was
noody there; all that could e seen was the other side of the tattered lack veil.
"Let’s go," called Hermione from halfway up the stone steps. "This isn’t right, Harry, come on,
let’s go."
She sounded scared, much more scared than she had in the room where the rains swam, yet
Harry thought the archway had a kind of eauty aout it, old though it was. The gently rippling
veil intrigued him; he felt a very strong inclination to clim up on the dais and walk through it.
"Harry, let’s go, okay?" said Hermione more forcefully.
"Okay," he said, ut did not move. He had just heard something. There were faint whispering,
murmuring noises coming from the other side of the veil.
"What are you saying?" he said, very loudly, so that his words echoed all around the stone
enches.
"Noody’s talking, Harry!" said Hermione, now moving over to him.
"Someone’s whispering ehind there," he said, moving out of her reach and continuing to frown
at the veil. "Is that you, Ron?"
"I’m here, mate," said Ron, appearing around the side of the archway.
"Can’t anyone else hear it?" Harry demanded, for the whispering and murmuring was ecoming
louder; without really meaning to put it there, he found his foot was on the dais.
"I can hear them too," reathed Luna, joining them around the side of the archway and gazing at
the swaying veil. "There are people in there!"
"What do you mean, ‘in there’?" demanded Hermione, jumping down from the ottom step and
sounding much angrier than the occasion warranted, "there isn’t any ‘in there’, it’s just an archway, there’s no room for anyody to e there. Harry, stop it, come away -"
She graed his arm and pulled, ut he resisted.
"Harry, we are supposed to e here for Sirius!" she said in a high-pitched, strained voice.
"Sirius," Harry repeated, still gazing, mesmerized, at the continuously swaying veil. "Yeah..."
Something finally slid ack into place in his rain; Sirius, captured, ound and tortured, and he
was staring at this archway...
He took several paces ack from the dais and wrenched his eyes from the veil.
"Let’s go," he said.
"That’s what I’ve een trying to - well, come on, then!" said Hermione, and she led the way ack
around the dais. On the other side, Ginny and Neville were staring, apparently entranced, at the
veil too. Without speaking, Hermione took hold of Ginny’s arm, Ron graed Neville’s, and they
marched them firmly ack to the lowest stone ench and clamered all the way ack up to the
door.
"What d’you reckon that arch was?" Harry asked Hermione as they regained the dark circular
room.
"I don’t know, ut whatever it was, it was dangerous," she said firmly, again inscriing a fiery
cross on the door.
Once more, the wall span and ecame still again. Harry approached another door at random and
pushed. It did not move.
"What’s wrong?" said Hermione.
"It’s... locked..." said Harry, throwing his weight at the door, ut it didn’t udge.
"This is it, then, isn’t it?" said Ron excitedly, joining Harry in the attempt to force the door open.
"Bound to e!"
"Get out of the way!" said Hermione sharply. She pointed her wand at the place where a lock
would have een on an ordinary door and said, "Alohomora!"
Nothing happened.
"Sirius’s knife!" said Harry. He pulled it out from inside his roes and slid it into the crack
etween the door and the wall. The others all watched eagerly as he ran it from top to ottom,
withdrew it and then flung his shoulder again at the door. It remained as firmly shut as ever.
What was more, when Harry looked down at the knife, he saw the lade had melted.
"Right, we’re leaving that room," said Hermione decisively.
"But what if that’s the one?" said Ron, staring at it with a mixture of apprehension and longing.
"It can’t e, Harry could get through all the doors in his dream," said Hermione, marking the door with another fiery cross as Harry replaced the now-useless handle of Sirius’s knife in his pocket.
"You know what could e in there?" said Luna eagerly, as the wall started to spin yet again.
"Something liering, no dout," said Hermione under her reath and Neville gave a nervous
little laugh.
The wall slid to a halt and Harry, with a feeling of increasing desperation, pushed the next door
open.
"This is it!"
He knew it at once y the eautiful, dancing, diamond-sparkling light. As Harrys eyes ecame
accustomed to the rilliant glare, he saw clocks gleaming from every surface, large and small,
grandfather and carriage, hanging in spaces etween the ookcases or standing on desks ranging
the length of the room, so that a usy, relentless ticking filled the place like thousands of
minuscule, marching footsteps. The source of the dancing, diamond-right light was a towering
crystal all jar that stood at the far end of the room.
"This way!"
Harry’s heart was pumping frantically now that he knew they were on the right track; he led the
way down the narrow space etween the lines of desks, heading, as he had done in his dream, for
the source of the light, the crystal ell jar quite as tall as he was that stood on a desk and
appeared to e full of a illowing, glittering wind.
"Oh, look!" said Ginny, as they drew nearer, pointing at the very heart of the ell jar.
Drifting along in the sparkling current inside was a tiny, jewel-right egg. As it rose in the jar, it
cracked open and a hummingird emerged, which was carried to the very top of the jar, ut as it
fell on the draught its feathers ecame edraggled and damp again, and y the time it had een
orne ack to the ottom of the jar it had een enclosed once more in its egg.
"Keep going!" said Harry sharply, ecause Ginny showed signs of wanting to stop and watch the
egg’s progress ack into a ird.
"You dawdled enough y that old arch!" she said crossly, ut followed him past the ell jar to the only door ehind it.
"This is it," Harry said again, and his heart was now pumping so hard and fast he felt it must
interfere with his speech, "it’s through here -"
He glanced around at them all; they had their wands out and looked suddenly serious and
anxious. He looked ack at the door and pushed. It swung open.
They were there, they had found the place: high as a church and full of nothing ut towering
shelves covered in small, dusty, glass ors. They glimmered dully in the light issuing from more
candle-rackets set at intervals along the shelves. Like those in the circular room ehind them,
their flames were urning lue. The room was very cold.
Harry edged forward and peered down one of the shadowy aisles etween two rows of shelves.
He could not hear anything or see the slightest sign of movement.
"You said it was row ninety-seven," whispered Hermione.
"Yeah," reathed Harry, looking up at the end of the closest row. Beneath the ranch of lueglowing candles protruding from it glimmered the silver figure fifty-three.
"We need to go right, I think," whispered Hermione, squinting to the next row. "Yes... that’s
fifty-four..."
"Keep your wands ready," Harry said softly.
They crept forward, glancing ehind them as they went on down the long alleys of shelves, the
further ends of which were in near-total darkness. Tiny, yellowing laels had een stuck eneath
each glass or on the shelves. Some of them had a weird, liquid glow; others were as dull and
dark within as lown light uls.
They passed row eighty-four... eighty-five... Harry was listening hard for the slightest sound of
movement, ut Sirius might e gagged now, or else unconscious... or, said an unidden voice
inside his head, he might already e dead...
I’d have felt it, he told himself, his heart now hammering against his Adam’s apple, I’d already
know...
"Ninety-seven!" whispered Hermione.
They stood grouped around the end of the row, gazing down the alley eside it. There was
noody there.
"He’s right down at the end," said Harry, whose mouth had ecome slightly dry. "You can’t see
properly from here."
And he led them etween the towering rows of glass alls, some of which glowed softly as they
passed...
"He should e near here," whispered Harry, convinced that every step was going to ring the
ragged form of Sirius into view on the darkened floor. "Anywhere here... really close..."
"Harry?" said Hermione tentatively, ut he did not want to respond. His mouth was very dry.
"Somewhere aout... here..." he said.
They had reached the end of the row and emerged into more dim candlelight. There was noody
there. All was echoing, dusty silence.
"He might e..." Harry whispered hoarsely, peering down the next alley. "Or maye..." He
hurried to look down the one eyond that.
"Harry?" said Hermione again.
"What?" he snarled.
"I... I don’t think Sirius is here."
Noody spoke. Harry did not want to look at any of them. He felt sick. He did not understand
why Sirius was not here. He had to e here. This was where he, Harry, had seen him...
He ran up the space at the end of the rows, staring down them. Empty aisle after empty aisle
flickered past. He ran the other way, ack past his staring companions. There was no sign of
Sirius anywhere, nor any hint of a struggle.
"Harry?" Ron called.
"What?"
He did not want to hear what Ron had to say; did not want to hear Ron tell him he had een
stupid or suggest that they ought to go ack to Hogwarts, ut the heat was rising in his face and
he felt as though he would like to skulk down here in the darkness for a long while efore facing
the rightness of the Atrium aove and the others’ accusing stares...
"Have you seen this?" said Ron,
"What?" said Harry, ut eagerly this time - it had to e a sign that Sirius had een there, a clue.
He strode ack to where they were all standing, a little way down row ninety-seven, ut found
nothing except Ron staring at one of the dusty glass spheres on the shelf.
"What?" Harry repeated glumly.
"It’s -- it’s got your name on," said Ron.
Harry moved a little closer. Ron was pointing at one of the small glass spheres that glowed with
a dull inner light, though it was very dusty and appeared not to have een touched for many
years.
"My name?" said Harry lankly.
He stepped forwards. Not as tall as Ron, he had to crane his neck to read the yellowish lael
affixed to the shelf right eneath the dusty glass all. In spidery writing was written a date of
some sixteen years previously, and elow that:
S.P.T. to A.P.W.B.D.
Dark Lord and (?)Harry Potter
Harry stared at it.
"What is it?" Ron asked, sounding unnerved. "What’s your name doing down here?"
He glanced along at the other laels on that stretch of shelf.
"I’m not here," he said, sounding perplexed. "None of the rest of us are here."
"Harry, I don’t think you should touch it," said Hermione sharply, as he stretched out his hand.
"Why not?" he said. "It’s something to do with me, isn’t it?"
"Don’t, Harry," said Neville suddenly. Harry looked at him. Neville’s round face was shining
slightly with sweat. He looked as though he could not take much more suspense.
"It’s got my name on," said Harry.
And feeling slightly reckless, he closed his fingers around the dusty all’s surface. He had
expected it to feel cold, ut it did not. On the contrary, it felt as though it had een lying in the
sun for hours, as though the glow of light within was warming it. Expecting, even hoping, that
something dramatic was going to happen, something exciting that might make their long and
dangerous journey worthwhile after all, Harry lifted the glass all down from its shelf and stared
at it.
Nothing whatsoever happened. The others moved in closer around Harry, gazing at the or as he
rushed it free of the clogging dust.
And then, from right ehind them, a drawling voice spoke.
"Very good, Potter. Now turn around, nice and slowly, and give that to me."
CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE
Beyond the Veil
Black shapes were emerging out of thin air all around them, locking their way left and right;
eyes glinted through slits in hoods, a dozen lit wand tips were pointing directly at their hearts;
Ginny gave a gasp of horror.
"To me, Potter," repeated the drawling voice of Lucius Malfoy as he held out his hand, palm up.
Harrys insides plummeted sickeningly. They were trapped, and outnumered two to one.
"To me," said Malfoy yet again.
"Where’s Sirius?" Harry said.
Several of the Death Eaters laughed; a harsh female voice from the midst of the shadowy figures
to Harry’s left said triumphantly, "The Dark Lord always knows!"
"Always," echoed Malfoy softly. "Now, give me the prophecy Potter."
"I want to know where Sirius is!"
"I want to know where Sirius is!" mimicked the woman to his left.
She and her fellow Death Eaters had closed in so that they were mere feet away from Harry and
the others, the light from their wands dazzling Harry’s eyes.
"You’ve got him," said Harry, ignoring the rising panic in his chest, the dread he had een
fighting since they had first entered the ninety-seventh row. "He’s here. I know he is."
"The little ay woke up fwightened and fort what it dweamed was twoo," said the woman in a
horrile, mock ay voice. Harry felt Ron stir eside him.
"Don’t do anything," Harry muttered. "Not yet -"
The woman who had mimicked him let out a raucous scream of laughter.
"You hear him? You hear him? Giving instructions to the other children as though he thinks of
fighting us!"
"Oh, you don’t know Potter as I do, Bellatrix," said Malfoy softly. "He has a great weakness for
heroics; the Dark Lord understands this aout him. Now give me the prophecy, Potter."
"I know Sirius is here," said Harry, though panic w as causing his chest to constrict and he felt as
though he could not reathe properly. "I know you’ve got him!"
More of the Death Eaters laughed, though the woman laughed loudest of all.
"It’s time you learned the difference etween life and dreams, Potter," said Malfoy. "Now give
me the prophecy, or we start using wands."
"Go on, then," said Harry, raising his own wand to chest height. As he did so, the five wands of
Ron, Hermione, Neville, Ginny and Luna rose on either side of him. The knot in Harry’s
stomach tightened. If Sirius really was not here, he had led his friends to their deaths for no
reason at all...
But the Death Eaters did not strike.
"Hand over the prophecy and no one need get hurt," said Malfoy coolly.
It was Harry’s turn to laugh.
"Yeah, right!" he said. "I give you this - prophecy, is it? And you’ll just let us skip off home, will
you?"
The words were hardly out of his mouth when the female Death Eater shrieked: "Accio proph--"
Harry was just ready for her: he shouted "Protego!" efore she had finished her spell, and though
the glass sphere slipped to the tips of his fingers he managed to cling on to it.
"Oh, he knows how to play, little itty ay Potter," she said, her mad eyes staring through the
slits in her hood. "Very well, then -"
"I TOLD YOU, NO!" Lucius Malfoy roared at the woman. "If you smash it -!"
Harry’s mind was racing. The Death Eaters wanted this dusty spun-glass sphere. He had no
interest in it. He just wanted to get them all out of this alive, to make sure none of his friends
paid a terrile price for his stupidity...
The woman stepped forward, away from her fellows, and pulled off her hood. Azkaan had
hollowed Bellatrix Lestrange’s face, making it gaunt and skull-like, ut it was alive with a
feverish, fanatical glow.
"You need more persuasion?" she said, her chest rising and falling rapidly. "Very well - take the
smallest one," she ordered the Death Eaters eside her. "Let him watch while we torture the little
girl. I’ll do it."
Harry felt the others close in around Ginny; he stepped sideways so that he was right in front of
her, the prophecy held up to his chest.
"You’ll have to smash this if you want to attack any of us," he told Bellatrix. "I don’t think your
oss will e too pleased if you come ack without it, will he?"
She did not move; she merely stared at him, the tip of her tongue moistening her thin mouth.
"So," said Harry, "what kind of prophecy are we talking aout, anyway?"
He could not think what to do ut to keep talking. Neville’s arm was pressed against his, and he
could feel him shaking; he could feel one of the others’ quickened reath on the ack of his head.
He was hoping they were all thinking hard aout ways to get out of this, ecause his mind was
lank.
"What kind of prophecy?" repeated Bellatrix, the grin fading from her face. "You jest, Harry
Potter."
"Nope, not jesting," said Harry, his eyes flicking from Death Eater to Death Eater, looking for a
weak link, a space through which they could escape. "How come Voldemort wants it?"
Several of the Death Eaters let out low hisses.
"You dare speak his name?" whispered Bellatrix.
"Yeah," said Harry, maintaining his tight grip on the glass all, expecting another attempt to
ewitch it from him. "Yeah, I’ve got no prolem with saying Vol--"
"Shut your mouth!" Bellatrix shrieked. "You dare speak his name with your unworthy lips, you
dare esmirch it with your half-lood’s tongue, you dare -"
"Did you know he’s a half-lood too?" said Harry recklessly. Hermione gave a little moan in his
ear. "Voldemort? Yeah, his mother was a witch ut his dad was a Muggle - or has he een telling
you lot he’s pure-lood?"
"STUPEF--"
"NO!"
A jet of red light had shot from the end of Bellatrix Lestrange’s wand, ut Malfoy had deflected
it; his spell caused hers to hit the shelf a foot to the left of Harry and several of the glass ors
there shattered.
Two figures, pearly-white as ghosts, fluid as smoke, unfurled themselves from the fragments of
roken glass upon the floor and each egan to speak; their voices vied with each other, so that
only fragments of what they were saying could e heard over Malfoy and Bellatrix’s shouts.
"... at the solstice will come a new..." said the figure of an old, earded man.
"DO NOT ATTACK! WE NEED THE PROPHECY!"
"He dared - he dares -" shrieked Bellatrix incoherently, "he stands there - filthy half-lood -"
"WAIT UNTIL WE’VE GOT THE PROPHECY!" awled Malfoy.
"... and none will come after..." said the figure of a young woman.
The two figures that had urst from the shattered spheres had melted into thin air. Nothing
remained of them or their erstwhile homes ut fragments of glass upon the floor. They had,
however, given Harry an idea. The prolem was going to e conveying it to the others.
"You haven’t told me what’s so special aout this prophecy I’m supposed to e handing over," he said, playing for time. He moved his foot slowly sideways, feeling around for someone else’s.
"Do not play games with us, Potter," said Malfoy.
"I’m not playing games," said Harry, half his mind on the conversation, half on his wandering
foot. And then he found someone’s toes and pressed down upon them. A sharp intake of reath
ehind him told him they were Hermiones.
"What?" she whispered.
"Dumledore never told you the reason you ear that scar was hidden in the owels of the
Department of Mysteries?" Malfoy sneered.
"I - what?" said Harry. And for a moment he quite forgot his plan. "What aout my scar?"
"What?" whispered Hermione more urgently ehind him.
"Can this e?" said Malfoy, sounding maliciously delighted; some of the Death Eaters were
laughing again, and under cover of their laughter, Harry hissed to Hermione, moving his lips as
little as possile, "Smash shelves -"
"Dumledore never told you?" Malfoy repeated. "Well, this explains why you didn’t come
earlier, Potter, the Dark Lord wondered why -"
"- when I say now-"
"- you didn’t come running when he showed you the place where it was hidden in your dreams.
He thought natural curiosity would make you want to hear the exact wording..."
"Did he?" said Harry. Behind him he felt rather than heard Hermione passing his message to the
others and he sought to keep talking, to distract the Death Eaters. "So he wanted me to come and
get it, did he? Why?"
"Why?" Malfoy sounded incredulously delighted. "Because the only people who are permitted to
retrieve a prophecy from the Department of Mysteries, Potter, are those aout whom it was
made, as the Dark Lord discovered when he attempted to use others to steal it for him."
"And why did he want to steal a prophecy aout me?"
"Aout oth of you, Potter, aout oth of you... haven’t you ever wondered why the Dark Lord
tried to kill you as a ay?"
Harry stared into the slitted eye-holes through which Malfoy’s grey eyes were gleaming. Was
this prophecy the reason Harry’s parents had died, the reason he carried his lightning-olt scar?
Was the answer to all of this clutched in his hand?
"Someone made a prophecy aout Voldemort and me?" he said quietly, gazing at Lucius Malfoy,
his fingers tightening over the warm glass sphere in his hand. It was hardly larger than a Snitch
and still gritty with dust. "And he’s made me come and get it for him? Why couldn’t he come
and get it himself?"
"Get it himself?" shrieked Bellatrix, over a cackle of mad laughter. "The Dark Lord, walk into the Ministry of Magic, when they are so sweetly ignoring his return? The Dark Lord, reveal himself to the Aurors, when at the moment they are wasting their time on my dear cousin?"
"So, he’s got you doing his dirty work for him, has he?" said Harry. "Like he tried to get Sturgis
to steal it - and Bode?"
"Very good, Potter, very good..." said Malfoy slowly. "But the Dark Lord knows you are not
unintell--"
"NOW!" yelled Harry.
Five different voices ehind him ellowed, "REDUCTO!" Five curses flew in five different
directions and the shelves opposite them exploded as they hit; the towering structure swayed as a
hundred glass spheres urst apart, pearly-white figures unfurled into the air and floated there,
their voices echoing from who knew what long-dead past amid the torrent of crashing glass and
splintered wood now raining down upon the floor -
"RUN!" Harry yelled, as the shelves swayed precariously and more glass spheres egan to fall
from aove. He seized a handful of Hermione’s roes and dragged her forwards, holding one
arm over his head as chunks of shelf and shards of glass thundered down upon them. A Death
Eater lunged forwards through the cloud of dust and Harry elowed him hard in the masked face;
they were all yelling, there were cries of pain, and thunderous crashes as the shelves collapsed
upon themselves, weirdly echoing fragments of the Seers unleashed from their spheres -
Harry found the way ahead clear and saw Ron, Ginny and Luna sprint past him, their arms over
their heads; something heavy struck him on the side of the face ut he merely ducked his head
and sprinted onwards; a hand caught him y the shoulder; he heard Hermione shout, "Stupefy!"
The hand released him at once -
They were at the end of row ninety-seven; Harry turned right and egan to sprint in earnest; he
could hear footsteps right ehind him and Hermione’s voice urging Neville on; straight ahead,
the door through which they had come was ajar; Harry could see the glittering light of the ell
jar; he pelted through the doorway, the prophecy still clutched tight and safe in his hand, and
waited for the others to hurtle over the threshold efore slamming the door ehind them -
"Colloportus!" gasped Hermione and the door sealed itself with an odd squelching noise.
"Where - where are the others?" gasped Harry.
He had thought Ron, Luna and Ginny were ahead of them, that they would e waiting in this
room, ut there was noody there.
"They must have gone the wrong way!" whispered Hermione, terror in her face.
"Listen!" whispered Neville.
Footsteps and shouts echoed from ehind the door they had just sealed; Harry put his ear close to
the door to listen and heard Lucius Malfoy roar, "Leave Nott, leave him, I say -- his injuries will
e nothing to the Dark Lord compared to losing that prophecy. Jugson, come ack here, we need
to organize! We’ll split into pairs and search, and don’t forget, e gentle with Potter until we’ve
got the prophecy, you can kill the others if necessary - Bellatrix, Rodolphus, you take the left;
Crae, Raastan, go right -Jugson, Dolohov, the door straight ahead - Macnair and Avery,
through here - Rookwood, over there - Mulcier, come with me!"
"What do we do?" Hermione asked Harry, tremling from head to foot.
"Well, we don’t stand here waiting for them to find us, for a start," said Harry. "Let’s get away
from this door." They ran as quietly as they could, past the shimmering ell jar where the tiny
egg was hatching and unhatching, towards the exit into the circular hallway at the far end of the
room. They were almost there when Harry heard something large and heavy collide with the
door Hermione had charmed shut.
"Stand aside!" said a rough voice. "Alahomora!"
As the door flew open, Harry, Hermione and Neville dived under desks. They could see the
ottom of the two Death Eaters’ roes drawing nearer, their feet moving rapidly.
"They might’ve run straight through to the hall," said the rough voice.
"Check under the desks," said another.
Harry saw the knees of the Death Eaters end; poking his wand out from under the desk, he
shouted, "STUPEFY!"
A jet of red light hit the nearest Death Eater; he fell ackwards into a grandfather clock and
knocked it over; the second Death Eater, however, had leapt aside to avoid Harry’s spell and was
pointing his own wand at Hermione, who was crawling out from under the desk to get a etter
aim.
"Avada -
Harry launched himself across the floor and graed the Death Eater around the knees, causing
him to topple and his aim to go awry. Neville overturned a desk in his anxiety to help; and
pointing his wand wildly at the struggling pair, he cried:
"EXPELLIARMUS!"
Both Harry’s and the Death Eater’s wands flew out of their hands and soared ack towards the
entrance to the Hall of Prophecy; oth scramled to their feet and charged after them, the Death
Eater in front, Harry hot on his heels, and Neville ringing up the rear, plainly horrorstruck y
what he had done.
"Get out of the way, Harry!" yelled Neville, clearly determined to repair the damage.
Harry flung himself sideways as Neville took aim again and shouted:
"STUPEFY!"
The jet of red light had flown right over the Death Eater’s shoulder and hit a glass-fronted cainet on the wall full of variously shaped hour-glasses; the cainet fell to the floor and urst apart, glass flying everywhere, sprang ack up on to the wall, fully mended, then fell down again, and shattered -
The Death Eater had snatched up his wand, which lay on the floor eside the glittering ell jar.
Harry ducked down ehind another desk as the man turned; his mask had slipped so that he
couldn’t see. He ripped it off with his free hand and shouted: "STUP--"
"STUPEFY!" screamed Hermione, who had just caught up with them. The jet of red light hit the
Death Eater in the middle of his chest: he froze, his arm still raised, his wand fell to the floor
with a clatter and he collapsed ackwards towards the ell jar. Harry expected to hear a dunk, for
the man to hit solid glass and slide off the jar on to the floor, ut instead, his head sank through
the surface of the ell jar as though it were nothing ut a soap ule and he came to rest,
sprawled on his ack on the tale, with his head lying inside the jar full of glittering wind.
"Accio wand!" cried Hermione. Harry’s wand flew from a dark corner into her hand and she
threw it to him.
"Thanks," he said. "Right, let’s get out of --"
"Look out!" said Neville, horrified. He was staring at the Death Eater’s head in the ell jar.
All three of them raised their wands again, ut none of them struck: they were all gazing, openmouthed, appalled, at what was happening to the man’s head.
It was shrinking very fast, growing alder and alder, the lack hair and stule retracting into
his skull; his cheeks ecoming smooth, his skull round and covered with a peachlike fuzz...
A ay’s head now sat grotesquely on top of the thick, muscled neck of the Death Eater as he
struggled to get up again; ut even as they watched, their mouths open, the head egan to swell
to its previous proportions again; thick lack hair was sprouting from the pate and chin...
"It’s Time," said Hermione in an awestruck voice. "Time..."
The Death Eater shook his ugly head again, trying to clear it, ut efore he could pull himself
together it egan to shrink ack to ayhood once more...
There was a shout from a room neary, then a crash and a scream.
"RON?" Harry yelled, turning quickly from the monstrous transformation taking place efore
them. "GINNY? LUNA?"
"Harry!" Hermione screamed.
The Death Eater had pulled his head out of the ell jar. His appearance was utterly izarre, his
tiny ay’s head awling loudly while his thick arms flailed dangerously in all directions,
narrowly missing Harry, who had ducked. Harry raised his wand ut to his amazement Hermione
seized his arm.
"You can’t hurt a ay!"
There was no time to argue the point; Harry could hear more footsteps growing louder from the
Hall of Prophecy and knew, too late, that he ought not to have shouted and given away their
position.
"Come on!" he said, and leaving the ugly ay-headed Death Eater staggering ehind them they
took off for the door that stood open at the other end of the room, leading ack into the lack
hallway.
They had run halfway towards it when Harry saw through the open door two more Death Eaters
running across the lack room towards them; veering left, he urst instead into a small, dark,
cluttered office and slammed the door ehind them.
"Collo--" egan Hermione, ut efore she could complete the spell the door had urst open and
the two Death Eaters had come hurtling inside.
With a cry of triumph, oth yelled:
"IMPEDIMENTA!"
Harry, Hermione and Neville were all knocked ackwards off their feet; Neville was thrown over
the desk and disappeared from view; Hermione smashed into a ookcase and was promptly
deluged in a cascade of heavy ooks; the ack of Harry’s head slammed into the stone wall
ehind him, tiny lights urst in front of his eyes and for a moment he was too dizzy and
ewildered to react.
"WE’VE GOT HIM!" yelled the Death Eater nearest Harry. "IN AN OFFICE OFF--"
"Silencio!" cried Hermione and the man’s voice was extinguished. He continued to mouth
through the hole in his mask, ut no sound came out. He was thrust aside y his fellow Death
Eater.
"Petrificus Totalus!" shouted Harry, as the second Death Eater raised his wand. His arms and legs snapped together and he fell forwards, face down on to the rug at Harry’s feet, stiff as a oard and unale to move.
"Well done, Ha--"
But the Death Eater Hermione had just struck dum made a sudden slashing movement with his
wand; a streak of what looked like purple flame passed right across Hermione’s chest. She gave
a tiny "Oh!" as though of surprise and crumpled on to the floor, where she lay motionless.
"HERMIONE!"
Harry fell to his knees eside her as Neville crawled rapidly towards her from under the desk, his
wand held up in front of him. The Death Eater kicked out hard at Neville’s head as he emerged -
his foot roke Neville’s wand in two and connected with his face. Neville gave a howl of pain
and recoiled, clutching his mouth and nose. Harry twisted around, his own wand held high, and
saw that the Death Eater had ripped off his mask and was pointing his wand directly at Harry,
who recognized the long, pale, twisted face from the Daily Prophet: Antonin Dolohov, the
wizard who had murdered the Prewetts.
Dolohov grinned. With his free hand, he pointed from the prophecy still clutched in Harrys hand,
to himself, then at Hermione. Though he could no longer speak, his meaning could not have een
clearer. Give me the prophecy, or you get the same as her...
"Like you won’t kill us all anyway, the moment I hand it over!" said Harry.
A whine of panic inside his head was preventing him thinking properly: he had one hand on
Hermione’s shoulder, which was still warm, yet did not dare look at her properly. Don’t let her e dead, don’t let her e dead, it’s my fault if she’s dead...
"Whaddever you do, Harry," said Neville fiercely from under the desk, lowering his hands to
show a clearly roken nose and lood pouring down his mouth and chin, "don’d gi it to him!"
Then there was a crash outside the door and Dolohov looked over his shoulder - the ay-headed
Death Eater had appeared in the doorway, his head awling, his great fists still flailing
uncontrollaly at everything around him. Harry seized his chance:
"PETRIFICUS TOTALUS!"
The spell hit Dolohov efore he could lock it and he toppled forwards across his comrade, oth
of them rigid as oards and unale to move an inch.
"Hermione," Harry said at once, shaking her as the ay-headed Death Eater lundered out of
sight again. "Hermione, wake up..."
"Whad did he do to her?" said Neville, crawling out from under the desk to kneel at her other side, lood streaming from his rapidly swelling nose.
"I dunno..."
Neville groped for Hermione’s wrist.
"Dat’s a pulse, Harry, I’ sure id is."
Such a powerful wave of relief swept through Harry that for a moment he felt light-headed.
"She’s alive?"
"Yeah, I dink so."
There was a pause in which Harry listened hard for the sound of more footsteps, ut all he could
hear were the whimpers and lunderings of the ay-headed Death Eater in the next room.
"Neville, we’re not far from the exit," Harry whispered, "we’re right next to that circular room...
if we can just get you across it and find the right door efore any more Death Eaters come, I’ll
et you can get Hermione up the corridor and into the lift... then you could find someone... raise
the alarm..."
"And whad are you going do do?" said Neville, mopping his leeding nose with his sleeve and
frowning at Harry.
"I’ve got to find the others," said Harry.
"Well, I’ going do find dem wid you," said Neville firmly.
"But Hermione --"
"We’ll dake her wid us," said Neville firmly. "I’ll carry her -- you’re edder at fighding dem dan I a -"
He stood up and seized one of Hermione’s arms, glaring at Harry, who hesitated, then graed
the other and helped hoist Hermione’s limp form over Neville’s shoulders.
"Wait," said Harry, snatching up Hermione’s wand from the floor and shoving it into Neville’s
hand, "you’d etter take this."
Neville kicked aside the roken fragments of his own wand as they walked slowly towards the
door.
"My gran’s going do kill e," said Neville thickly, lood spattering from his nose as he spoke,
"dat was y dad’s old wand."
Harry stuck his head out of the door and looked around cautiously. The ay-headed Death Eater
was screaming and anging into things, toppling grandfather clocks and overturning desks,
awling and confused, while the glass-fronted cainet that Harry now suspected had contained
Time-Turners continued to fall, shatter and repair itself on the wall ehind them.
"He’s never going to notice us," he whispered. "C’mon... keep close ehind me..."
They crept out of the office and ack towards the door into the lack hallway, which now
seemed completely deserted. They walked a few steps forwards, Neville tottering slightly due to
Hermione’s weight; the door of the Time Room swung shut ehind them and the walls egan to
rotate once more. The recent low on the ack of Harrys head seemed to have unsteadied him; he
narrowed his eyes, swaying slightly, until the walls stopped moving again. With a sinking heart,
Harry saw that Hermione’s fiery crosses had faded from the doors.
"So which way d’you reck--?"
But efore they could make a decision as to which way to try, a door to their right sprang open
and three people fell out of it.
"Ron!" croaked Harry, dashing towards them. "Ginny - are you all -?"
"Harry," said Ron, giggling weakly, lurching forwards, seizing the front of Harry’s roes and
gazing at him with unfocused eyes, "there you are... ha ha ha... you look funny, Harry... you’re
all messed up..."
Ron’s face was very white and something dark was trickling from the corner of his mouth. Next
moment his knees had given way, ut he still clutched the front of Harry’s roes, so that Harry
was pulled into a kind of ow.
"Ginny?" Harry said fearfully. "What happened?"
But Ginny shook her head and slid down the wall into a sitting position, panting and holding her
ankle.
"I think her ankle’s roken, I heard something crack," whispered Luna, who was ending over
her and who alone seemed to e unhurt. "Four of them chased us into a dark room full of planets;
it was a very odd place, some of the time we were just floating in the dark -"
"Harry, we saw Uranus up close!" said Ron, still giggling feely. "Get it, Harry? We saw Uranus
- ha ha ha -"
A ule of lood grew at the corner of Ron’s mouth and urst.
"- anyway, one of them graed Ginny’s foot, I used the Reductor Curse and lew up Pluto in his face, ut..."
Luna gestured hopelessly at Ginny, who was reathing in a very shallow way, her eyes still
closed.
"And what aout Ron?" said Harry fearfully, as Ron continued to giggle, still hanging off the
front of Harry’s roes.
"I don’t know what they hit him with," said Luna sadly, "ut he’s gone a it funny, I could hardly get him along at all."
"Harry," said Ron, pulling Harry’s ear down to his mouth and still giggling weakly, "you know
who this girl is, Harry? She’s Loony... Loony Lovegood... ha ha ha "
"We’ve got to get out of here," said Harry firmly. "Luna, can you help Ginny?"
"Yes," said Luna, sticking her wand ehind her ear for safekeeping, then putting an arm around
Ginnys waist and pulling her up.
"It’s only my ankle, I can do it myself!" said Ginny impatiently, ut next moment she had
collapsed sideways and graed Luna for support. Harry pulled Ron’s arm over his shoulder just
as, so many months ago, he had pulled Dudley’s. He looked around: they had a one in twelve
chance of getting the exit right first time -
He heaved Ron towards a door; they were within a few feet of it when another door across the
hall urst open and three Death Eaters sped in, led y Bellatrix Lestrange.
"There they are!" she shrieked.
Stunning Spells shot across the room: Harry smashed his way through the door ahead, flung Ron
unceremoniously from him and ducked ack to help Neville in with Hermione: they were all
over the threshold just in time to slam the door against Bellatrix.
"Colloportus!" shouted Harry, and he heard three odies slam into the door on the other side.
"It doesn’t matter!" said a man’s voice. "There are other ways in - WE’VE GOT THEM,
THEY’RE HERE!"
Harry span around; they were ack in the Brain Room and, sure enough, there were doors all
around the walls. He could hear footsteps in the hall ehind them as more Death Eaters came
running to join the first.
"Luna - Neville - help me!"
The three of them tore around the room, sealing the doors as they went; Harry crashed into a
tale and rolled over the top of it in his haste to reach the next door:
"Colloportus!"
There were footsteps running along ehind the doors, every now and then another heavy ody
would launch itself against one, so it creaked and shuddered; Luna and Neville were ewitching
the doors along the opposite wall - then, as Harry reached the very top of the room, he heard
Luna cry:
"Collo--aaaaaaaaargh..."
He turned in time to see her flying through the air; five Death Eaters were surging into the room
through the door she had not reached in time; Luna hit a desk, slid over its surface and on to the
floor on the other side where she lay sprawled, as still as Hermione.
"Get Potter!" shrieked Bellatrix, and she ran at him; he dodged her and sprinted ack up the
room; he was safe as long as they thought they might hit the prophecy -
"Hey!" said Ron, who had staggered to his feet and was now tottering drunkenly towards Harry,
giggling. "Hey Harry, there are rains in here, ha h a ha, isn’t that weird, Harry?"
"Ron, get out of the way, get down -"
But Ron had already pointed his wand at the tank.
"Honest, Harry, they’re rains - look -Accio rain!"
The scene seemed momentarily frozen. Harry, Ginny and Neville and each of the Death Eaters
turned in spite of themselves to watch the top of the tank as a rain urst from the green liquid
like a leaping fish: for a moment it seemed suspended in midair, then it soared towards Ron,
spinning as it came, and what looked like rions of moving images flew from it, unraveling
like rolls of film-
"Ha ha ha, Harry, look at it -" said Ron, watching it disgorge its gaudy innards, "Harry come and
touch it; et it’s weird -"
"RON, NO!"
Harry did not know what would happen if Ron touched the tentacles of thought now flying
ehind the rain, ut he was sure it would not e anything good. He darted forwards ut Ron had
already caught the rain in his outstretched hands.
The moment they made contact with his skin, the tentacles egan wrapping themselves around
Ron’s arms like ropes.
"Harry, look what’s happen-- No - no - I don’t like it - no, stop - stop -"
But the thin rions were spinning around Ron’s chest now; he tugged and tore at them as the
rain was pulled tight against him like an octopus’s ody.
"Diffindo!" yelled Harry, trying to sever the feelers wrapping themselves tightly around Ron
efore his eyes, ut they would not reak. Ron fell over, still thrashing against his onds.
"Harry, it’ll suffocate him!" screamed Ginny, immoilized y her roken ankle on the floor - then a jet of red light flew from one of the Death Eater’s wands and hit her squarely in the face. She keeled over sideways and lay there unconscious.
"STUBEFY!" shouted Neville, wheeling around and waving Hermione’s wand at the oncoming
Death Eaters, "STUBEFY, STUBEFY!"
But nothing happened.
One of the Death Eaters shot their own Stunning Spell at Neville; it missed him y inches. Harry
and Neville were now the only two left fighting the five Death Eaters, two of whom sent off
streams of silver light like arrows which missed ut left craters in the wall ehind them. Harry
ran for it as Bellatrix Lestrange raced right at him: holding the prophecy high aove his head, he
sprinted ack up the room; all he could think of doing was to draw the Death Eaters away from
the others.
It seemed to have worked; they streaked after him, knocking chairs and tales flying ut not
daring to ewitch him in case they hurt the prophecy, and he dashed through the only door still
open, the one through which the Death Eaters themselves had come; inwardly praying that
Neville would stay with Ron and find some way of releasing him. He ran a few feet into the new
room and felt the floor vanish -
He was falling down steep stone step after steep stone step, ouncing on every tier until at last,
with a crash that knocked all the reath out of his ody, he landed flat on his ack in the sunken
pit where the stone archway stood on its dais. The whole room was ringing with the Death
Eaters’ laughter: he looked up and saw the five who had een in the Brain Room descending
towards him, while as many more emerged through other doorways and egan leaping from
ench to ench towards him. Harry got to his feet though his legs were tremling so adly they
arely supported him: the prophecy was still miraculously unroken in his left hand, his wand
clutched tightly in his right. He acked away, looking around, trying to keep all the Death Eaters
within his sight. The ack of his legs hit something solid: he had reached the dais where the
archway stood. He climed ackwards onto it.
The Death Eaters all halted, gazing at him. Some were panting as hard as he was. One was
leeding adly; Dolohov, freed of the Body-Bind Curse, was leering, his wand pointing straight
at Harrys face.
"Potter, your race is run," drawled Lucius Malfoy, pulling off his mask, "now hand me the
prophecy like a good oy."
"Let - let the others go, and I’ll give it to you!" said Harry desperately.
A few of the Death Eaters laughed.
"You are not in a position to argain, Potter," said Lucius Malfoy, his pale face flushed with
pleasure. "You see, there are ten of us and only one of you... or hasn’t Dumledore ever taught
you how to count?"
"He’s dot alone!" shouted a voice from aove them. "He’s still god e!"
Harry’s heart sank: Neville was scramling down the stone enches towards them, Hermiones
wand held fast in his tremling hand.
"Neville - no - go ack to Ron -"
"STUBEFY!" Neville shouted again, pointing his wand at each Death Eater in turn. "STUBEFY!
STUBE--"
One of the largest Death Eaters seized Neville from ehind, pinioning his arms to his sides. He
struggled and kicked; several of the Death Eaters laughed.
"It’s Longottom, isn’t it" sneered Lucius Malfoy. "Well, your grandmother is used to losing
family memers to our cause... your death will not come as a great shock."
"Longottom?" repeated Bellatrix, and a truly evil smile lit her gaunt face. "Why, I have had the
pleasure of meeting your parents, oy,"
"I DOE YOU HAB!" roared Neville, and he fought so hard against his captors encircling grip
that the Death Eater shouted, "Someone Stun him!"
"No, no, no," said Bellatrix. She looked transported, alive with excitement as she glanced at
Harry, then ack at Neville. "No, let’s see how long Longottom lasts efore he cracks like his
parents... unless Potter wants to give us the prophecy."
"DON’D GIB ID DO DEM!" roared Neville, who seemed eside himself, kicking and writhing
as Bellatrix drew nearer to him and his captor, her wand raised. "DON’D GIB ID DO DEM,
HARRY!"
Bellatrix raised her wand. "Crucio!"
Neville screamed, his legs drawn up to his chest so that the Death Eater holding him was
momentarily holding him off the ground. The Death Eater dropped him and he fell to the floor,
twitching and screaming in agony.
"That was just a taster!" said Bellatrix, raising her wand so that Neville’s screams stopped and he
lay soing at her feet. She turned and gazed up at Harry. "Now, Potter, either give us the
prophecy, or watch your little friend die the hard way!"
Harry did not have to think; there was no choice. The prophecy was hot with the heat of his
clutching hand as he held it out. Malfoy jumped forwards to take it.
Then, high aove them, two more doors urst open and five more people sprinted into the room:
Sirius, Lupin, Moody, Tonks and Kingsley.
Malfoy turned, and raised his wand, ut Tonks had already sent a Stunning Spell right at him.
Harry did not wait to see whether it had made contact, ut dived off the dais out of the way. The
Death Eaters were completely distracted y the appearance of the memers of the Order, who
were now raining spells down upon them as they jumped from step to step towards the sunken
floor. Through the darting odies, the flashes of light, Harry could see Neville crawling along.
He dodged another jet of red light and flung himself flat on the ground to reach Neville.
"Are you okay?" he yelled, as another spell soared inches over their heads.
"Yes," said Neville, trying to pull himself up.
"And Ron?"
"I dink he’s all righd - he was still fighding de rain when I lefd -"
The stone floor etween them exploded as a spell hit it, leaving a crater right where Neville’s
hand had een only seconds efore; oth scramled away from the spot, then a thick arm came
out of nowhere, seized Harry around the neck and pulled him upright, so that his toes were
arely touching the floor.
"Give it to me," growled a voice in his ear, "give me the prophecy -"
The man was pressing so tightly on Harry’s windpipe that he could not reathe. Through
watering eyes he saw Sirius dueling with a Death Eater some ten feet away; Kingsley was
fighting two at once; Tonks, still halfway up the tiered seats, was firing spells down at Bellatrix -
noody seemed to realize that Harry was dying. He turned his wand ackwards towards the
man’s side, ut had no reath to utter an incantation, and the man’s free hand was groping
towards the hand in which Harry was grasping the prophecy -
"AARGH!"
Neville had come lunging out of nowhere; unale to articulate a spell, he had jaed Hermione’s
wand hard into the eyehole of the Death Eaters mask. The man relinquished Harry at once with a
howl of pain. Harry whirled around to face him and gasped:
"STUPEFY!"
The Death Eater keeled over ackwards and his mask slipped off: it was Macnair, Buckeak’s
would-e killer, one of his eyes now swollen and loodshot.
"Thanks!" Harry said to Neville, pulling him aside as Sirius and his Death Eater lurched past,
dueling so fiercely that their wands were lurs; then Harry’s foot made contact with something
round and hard and he slipped. For a moment he thought he had dropped the prophecy, ut then
he saw Moody’s magical eye spinning away across the floor.
Its owner was lying on his side, leeding from the head, and his attacker was now earing down
upon Harry and Neville: Dolohov, his long pale face twisted with glee.
"Tarantallegra!" he shouted, his wand pointing at Neville, whose legs went immediately into a
kind of frenzied tap-dance, unalancing him and causing him to fall to the floor again. "Now,
Potter -"
He made the same slashing movement with his wand that he had used on Hermione just as Harry
yelled, "Protego!"
Harry felt something streak across his face like a lunt knife; the force of it knocked him
sideways and he fell over Neville’s jerking legs, ut the Shield Charm had stopped the worst of
the spell.
Dolohov raised his wand again. "Accio proph--"
Sirius had hurtled out of nowhere, rammed Dolohov with his shoulder and sent him flying out of
the way. The prophecy had again flown to the tips of Harry’s fingers ut he had managed to
cling on to it. Now Sirius and Dolohov were dueling, their wands flashing like swords, sparks
flying from their wand-tips -
Dolohov drew ack his wand to make the same slashing movement he had used on Harry and
Hermione. Springing up, Harry yelled, "Petrificus Totalus!" Once again, Dolohov’s arms and
legs snapped together and he keeled over ackwards, landing with a crash on his ack.
"Nice one!" shouted Sirius, forcing Harry’s head down as a pair of Stunning Spells flew towards
them. "Now I want you to get out of-"
They oth ducked again; a jet of green light had narrowly missed Sirius. Across the room Harry
saw Tonks fall from halfway up the stone steps, her limp form toppling from stone seat to stone
seat and Bellatrix, triumphant, running ack towards the fray.
"Harry, take the prophecy, gra Neville and run!" Sirius yelled, dashing to meet Bellatrix. Harry
did not see what happened next: Kingsley swayed across his field of vision, attling with the
pockmarked and no longer masked Rookwood; another jet of green light flew over Harry’s head
as he launched himself towards Neville -
"Can you stand?" he ellowed in Neville’s ear, as Neville’s legs jerked and twitched
uncontrollaly. "Put your arm round my neck -"
Neville did so - Harry heaved -- Neville’s legs were still flying in every direction, they would
not support him, and then, out of nowhere, a man lunged at them: oth fell ackwards, Neville’s
legs waving wildly like an overturned eetle’s, Harry with his left arm held up in the air to try to
save the small glass all from eing smashed.
"The prophecy, give me the prophecy, Potter!" snarled Lucius Malfoy’s voice in his ear, and
Harry felt the tip of Malfoy’s wand pressing hard etween his ris.
"No - get - off - me... Neville - catch it!"
Harry flung the prophecy across the floor, Neville spun himself around on his ack and scooped
the all to his chest. Malfoy pointed the wand instead at Neville, ut Harry jaed his own wand
ack over his shoulder and yelled, "Impedimenta!"
Malfoy was lasted off his ack. As Harry scramled up again he looked around and saw Malfoy
smash into the dais on which Sirius and Bellatrix were now dueling. Malfoy aimed his wand at
Harry and Neville again, ut efore he could draw reath to strike, Lupin had jumped etween
them.
"Harry, round up the others and GO!"
Harry seized Neville y the shoulder of his roes and lifted him odily on to the first tier of stone
steps; Neville’s legs twitched and jerked and would not support his weight; Harry heaved again
with all the strength he possessed and they climed another step -
A spell hit the stone ench at Harrys heel; it crumled away and he fell ack to the step elow.
Neville sank to the ground, his legs still jerking and thrashing, and he thrust the prophecy into his
pocket.
"Come on!" said Harry desperately, hauling at Neville’s roes. "Just try and push with your legs"
He gave another stupendous heave and Neville’s roes tore all along the left seam - the small
spun-glass all dropped from his pocket and, efore either of them could catch it, one of
Neville’s floundering feet kicked it: it flew some ten feet to their right and smashed on the step
eneath them. As oth of them stared at the place where it had roken, appalled at what had
happened, a pearly-white figure with hugely magnified eyes rose into the air, unnoticed y any
ut them. Harry could see its mouth moving, ut in all the crashes and screams and yells
surrounding them, not one word of the prophecy could he hear. The figure stopped speaking and
dissolved into nothingness.
"Harry, I’ sorry!" cried Neville, his face anguished as his legs continued to flounder. "I’ so
sorry, Harry, I didn’d ean do -"
"It doesn’t matter!" Harry shouted. "Just try and stand, let’s get out of -"
"Duledore!" said Neville, his sweaty face suddenly transported, staring over Harry’s shoulder.
"What?"
"DUBBLEDORE!"
Harry turned to look where Neville was staring. Directly aove them, framed in the doorway
from the Brain Room, stood Alus Dumledore, his wand aloft, his face white and furious. Harry
felt a kind of electric charge surge through every particle of his ody - they were saved.
Dumledore sped down the steps past Neville and Harry, who had no more thoughts of leaving.
Dumledore was already at the foot of the steps when the Death Eaters nearest realized he was
there and yelled to the others. One of the Death Eaters ran for it, scraling like a monkey up the
stone steps opposite. Dumledore’s spell pulled him ack as easily and effortlessly as though he
had hooked him with an invisile line -
Only one pair was still attling, apparently unaware of the new arrival. Harry saw Sirius duck
Bellatrix’s jet of red light: he was laughing at her.
"Come on, you can do etter than that!" he yelled, his voice echoing around the cavernous room.
The second jet of light hit him squarely on the chest.
The laughter had not quite died from his face, ut his eyes widened in shock.
Harry released Neville, though he was unaware of doing so. He was jumping down the steps
again, pulling out his wand, as Dumledore, too, turned towards the dais.
It seemed to take Sirius an age to fall: his ody curved in a graceful arc as he sank ackwards
through the ragged veil hanging from the arch.
Harry saw the look of mingled fear and surprise on his godfather’s wasted, once-handsome face
as he fell through the ancient doorway and disappeared ehind the veil, which fluttered for a
moment as though in a high wind, then fell ack into place.
Harry heard Bellatrix Lestrange’s triumphant scream, ut knew it meant nothing - Sirius had
only just fallen through the archway, he would reappear from the other side any second...
But Sirius did not reappear.
"SIRIUS!" Harry yelled. "SIRIUS!"
He had reached the floor, his reath coming in searing gasps. Sirius must e just ehind the
curtain, he, Harry, would pull him ack out...
But as he reached the ground and sprinted towards the dais, Lupin graed Harry around the
chest, holding him ack.
"There’s nothing you can do, Harry -"
"Get him, save him, he’s only just gone through!"
"- it’s too late, Harry."
"We can still reach him -" Harry struggled hard and viciously, ut Lupin would not let go...
"There’s nothing you can do, Harry... nothing... he’s gone."
CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX
The Only One He Ever Feared
"He hasn’t gone!" Harry yelled.
He did not elieve it; he would not elieve it; still he fought Lupin with every it of strength he
had. Lupin did not understand; people hid ehind that curtain; Harry had heard them whispering
the first time he had entered the room. Sirius was hiding, simply lurking out of sight.
"SIRIUS!" he ellowed. "SIRIUS!"
"He can’t come ack, Harry," said Lupin, his voice reaking as he struggled to contain Harry.
"He can’t come ack, ecause he’s d-"
"HE - IS - NOT - DEAD!" roared Harry. "SIRIUS!"
There was movement going on around them, pointless ustling, the flashes of more spells. To
Harry it was meaningless noise, the deflected curses flying past them did not matter, nothing
mattered except that Lupin should stop pretending that Sirius - who was standing feet from them
ehind that old curtain - was not going to emerge at any moment, shaking ack his dark hair and
eager to re-enter the attle.
Lupin dragged Harry away from the dais. Harry, still staring at the archway, was angry at Sirius
now for keeping him waiting
But some part of him realized, even as he fought to reak free from Lupin, that Sirius had never
kept him waiting efore... Sirius had risked everything, always, to see Harry, to help him... if
Sirius was not reappearing out of that archway when Harry was yelling for him as though his life
depended on it, the only possile explanation was that he could not come ack... that he really
was.
Dumledore had most of the remaining Death Eaters grouped in the middle of the room,
seemingly immoilized y invisile ropes; Mad-Eye Moody had crawled across the room to
where Tonks lay, and was attempting to revive her; ehind the dais there were still hashes of
light, grunts and cries - Kingsley had run forward to continue Sirius’s duel with Bellatrix.
"Harry?"
Neville had slid down the stone enches one y one to the place where Harry stood. Harry was
no longer struggling against Lupin, who maintained a precautionary grip on his arm nevertheless.
"Harry... I’ really sorry..." said Neville. His legs were still dancing uncontrollaly. "Was dad
man - was Sirius Black a - a friend of yours?"
Harry nodded.
"Here," said Lupin quietly, and pointing his wand at Neville’s legs he said, "Finite." The spell
was lifted: Neville’s legs fell ack to the floor and remained still. Lupin’s face was pale. "Let’s -
let’s find the others. Where are they all, Neville?"
Lupin turned away from the archway as he spoke. It sounded as though every word was causing
him pain.
"Dey’re all ack dere," said Neville. "A rain addacked Ron ud I dink he’s all righd - and
Herione’s unconscious, ud we could feel a ulse"
There was a loud ang and a yell from ehind the dais. Harry saw Kingsley hit the ground
yelling in pain: Bellatrix Lestrange turned tail and ran as Dumledore whipped around. He aimed
a spell at her ut she deflected it; she was halfway up the steps now
"Harry - no!" cried Lupin, ut Harry had already ripped his arm from Lupin’s slackened grip.
"SHE KILLED SIRIUS!" ellowed Harry. "SHE KILLED HIM I’LL KILL HER!"
And he was off, scramling up the stone enches; people were shouting ehind him ut he did
not care. The hem of Bellatrix’s roes whipped out of sight ahead and they were ack in the
room where the rains were swimming...
She aimed a curse over her shoulder. The tank rose into the air and tipped. Harry was deluged in
the foul-smelling potion within: the rains slipped and slid over him and egan spinning their
long colored tentacles, ut he shouted, "Wingardium Leviosa!" and they flew off him up into
the air. Slipping and sliding, he ran on towards the door; he leapt over Luna, who was groaning
on the floor, past Ginny, who said, "Harry - what -?", past Ron, who giggled feely, and
Hermione, who was still unconscious. He wrenched open the door into the circular lack hall and
saw Bellatrix disappearing through a door on the other side of the room; eyond her was the
corridor leading ack to the lifts.
He ran, ut she had slammed the door ehind her and the walls were already rotating. Once
more, he was surrounded y streaks of lue light from the whirling candelara.
"Where’s the exit?" he shouted desperately, as the wall rumled to a halt again. "Where’s the way out?"
The room seemed to have een waiting for him to ask. The door right ehind him flew open and
the corridor towards the lifts stretched ahead of him, torch-lit and empty. He ran...
He could hear a lift clattering ahead; he sprinted up the passageway, swung around the corner
and slammed his fist on to the utton to call a second lift. It jangled and anged lower and lower;
the grilles slid open and Harry dashed inside, now hammering the utton marked ‘Atrium’. The
doors slid shut and he was rising...
He forced his way out of the lift efore the grilles were fully open and looked around. Bellatrix
was almost at the telephone lift at the other end of the hall, ut she looked ack as he sprinted
towards her and aimed another spell at him. He dodged ehind the Fountain of Magical Brethren:
the spell zoomed past him and hit the wrought gold gates at the other end of the Atrium so that
they rang like ells. There were no more footsteps. She had stopped running. He crouched
ehind the statues, listening.
"Come out, come out, little Harry!" she called in her mock ay voice, which echoed off the
polished wooden floors. "What did you come after me for, then? I thought you were here to
avenge my dear cousin!"
"I am!" shouted Harry, and a score of ghostly Harrys seemed to chorus I am! I am! I am! all
around the room
"Aaaaaah... did you love him, little ay Potter?"
Hatred rose in Harry such as he had never known efore; he flung himself out from ehind the
fountain and ellowed, "Crucio!"
Bellatrix screamed: the spell had knocked her off her feet, ut she did not writhe and shriek with
pain as Neville had - she was already ack on her feet, reathless, no longer laughing. Harry
dodged ehind the golden fountain again. Her counter-spell hit the head of the handsome wizard,
which was lown off and landed twenty feet away, gouging long scratches into the wooden floor.
"Never used an Unforgivale Curse efore, have you, oy?" she yelled. She had aandoned her
ay voice now. "You need to mean them, Potter! You need to really want to cause pain - to
enjoy it - righteous anger won’t hurt me for long - I’ll show you how it is done, shall I? I’ll give
you a lesson -"
Harry was edging around the fountain on the other side when she screamed, "Crucio!" and he
was forced to duck down again as the centaur’s arm, holding its ow, span off and landed with a
crash on the floor a short distance from the golden wizard’s head.
"Potter, you cannot win against me!" she cried.
He could hear her moving to the right, trying to get a clear shot of him. He acked around the
statue away from her, crouching ehind the centaur’s legs, his head level with the house-elf’s.
"I was and am the Dark Lord’s most loyal servant. I learned the Dark Arts from him, and I know
spells of such power that you, pathetic little oy, can never hope to compete"
"Stupefy!" yelled Harry. He had edged right around to where the golin stood eaming up at the
now headless wizard and taken aim at her ack as she peered around the fountain. She reacted so
fast he arely had time to duck.
"Protego!"
The jet of red light, his own Stunning Spell, ounced ack at him. Harry scramled ack ehind
the fountain and one of the golin’s ears went flying across the room.
"Potter, I’m going to give you one chance!" shouted Bellatrix. "Give me the prophecy - roll it out towards me now - and I may spare your life!"
"Well, you’re going to have to kill me, ecause it’s gone!" Harry roared and, as he shouted it,
pain seared across his forehead; his scar was on fire again, and he felt a surge of fury that was
quite unconnected with his own rage. "And he knows!’" said Harry, with a mad laugh to match
Bellatrix’s own. "Your dear old mate Voldemort knows it’s gone! He’s not going to e happy
with you, is he?"
"What? What do you mean?" she cried, and for the first time there was fear in her voice.
"The prophecy smashed when I was trying to get Neville up the steps! What do you think
Voldemort’ll say aout that, then?"
His scar seared and urned... the pain of it was making his eyes stream...
"LIAR!" she shrieked, ut he could hear the terror ehind the anger now. "YOU’VE GOT IT,
POTTER, AND YOU WILL GIVE IT TO ME! Accio prophecy! ACCIO PROPHECY!"
Harry laughed again ecause he knew it would incense her, the pain uilding in his head so adly
he thought his skull might urst. He waved his empty hand from ehind the one-eared golin and
withdrew it quickly as she sent another jet of green light flying at him.
"Nothing there!" he shouted. "Nothing to summon! It smashed and noody heard what it said, tell your oss that!"
"No!" she screamed. "It isn’t true, you’re lying! MASTER, I TRIED, I TRIED - DO NOT
PUNISH ME"
"Don’t waste your reath!" yelled Harry, his eyes screwed up against the pain in his scar, now
more terrile than ever. "He can’t hear you from here!"
"Can’t I, Potter?" said a high, cold voice.
Harry opened his eyes.
Tall, thin and lack-hooded, his terrile snakelike face white and gaunt, his scarlet, slit-pupilled
eyes staring... Lord Voldemort had appeared in the middle of the hall, his wand pointing at
Harry who stood frozen, quite unale to move.
"So, you smashed my prophecy?" said Voldemort softly, staring at Harry with those pitiless red
eyes. "No, Bella, he is not lying... I see the truth looking at me from within his worthless mind... months of preparation, months of effort... and my Death Eaters have let Harry Potter thwart me again"
"Master, I am sorry I knew not, I was fighting the Animagus Black!" soed Bellatrix, flinging
herself down at Voldemort’s feet as he paced slowly nearer. "Master, you should know"
"Be quiet, Bella," said Voldemort dangerously. "I shall deal with you in a moment. Do you think
I have entered the Ministry of Magic to hear your sniveling apologies?"
"But Master - he is here - he is elow"
Voldemort paid no attention.
"I have nothing more to say to you, Potter," he said quietly. "You have irked me too often, for too long. AVADA KEDAVRA!"
Harry had not even opened his mouth to resist; his mind was lank, his wand pointing uselessly
at the floor.
But the headless golden statue of the wizard in the fountain had sprung alive, leaping from its
plinth to land with a crash on the floor etween Harry and Voldemort. The spell merely glanced
off its chest as the statue flung out its arms to protect Harry.
"What -?" cried Voldemort, staring around. And then he reathed, "Dumledore!"
Harry looked ehind him, his heart pounding. Dumledore was standing in front of the golden
gates.
Voldemort raised his wand and another jet of green light streaked at Dumledore, who turned
and was gone in a whirling of his cloak. Next second, he had reappeared ehind Voldemort and
waved his wand towards the remnants of the fountain. The other statues sprang to life. The statue
of the witch ran at Bellatrix, who screamed and sent spells streaming uselessly off its chest,
efore it dived at her, pinning her to the floor. Meanwhile, the golin and the house-elf scuttled
towards the fireplaces set along the wall and the one-armed centaur galloped at Voldemort, who
vanished and reappeared eside the pool. The headless statue thrust Harry ackwards, away from
the fight, as Dumledore advanced on Voldemort and the golden centaur cantered around them
oth.
"It was foolish to come here tonight, Tom," said Dumledore calmly. "The Aurors are on their
way"
"By which time I shall e gone, and you will e dead!" spat Voldemort. He sent another killing
curse at Dumledore ut missed, instead hitting the security guard’s desk, which urst into
flame.
Dumledore flicked his own wand: the force of the spell that emanated from it was such that
Harry, though shielded y his golden guard, felt his hair stand on end as it passed and this time
Voldemort was forced to conjure a shining silver shield out of thin air to deflect it. The spell,
whatever it was, caused no visile damage to the shield, though a deep, gong-like note
revererated from it - an oddly chilling sound.
"You do not seek to kill me, Dumledore?" called Voldemort, his scarlet eyes narrowed over the
top of the shield. "Aove such rutality, are you?"
"We oth know that there are other ways of destroying a man, Tom," Dumledore said calmly,
continuing to walk towards Voldemort as though he had not a fear in the world, as though
nothing had happened to interrupt his stroll up the hall. "Merely taking your life would not
satisfy me, I admit"
"There is nothing worse than death, Dumledore!" snarled Voldemort.
"You are quite wrong," said Dumledore, still closing in upon Voldemort and speaking as lightly
as though they were discussing the matter over drinks. Harry felt scared to see him walking
along, undefended, shieldless; he wanted to cry out a warning, ut his headless guard kept
shunting him ackwards towards the wall, locking his every attempt to get out from ehind it.
"Indeed, your failure to understand that there are things much worse than death has always een
your greatest weakness"
Another jet of green light flew from ehind the silver shield. This time it was the one-armed
centaur, galloping in front of Dumledore, that took the last and shattered into a hundred pieces,
ut efore the fragments had even hit the floor, Dumledore had drawn ack his wand and
waved it as though randishing a whip. A long thin flame flew from the tip; it wrapped itself
around Voldemort, shield and all. For a moment, it seemed Dumledore had won, ut then the
fiery rope ecame a serpent, which relinquished its hold on Voldemort at once and turned,
hissing furiously, to face Dumledore.
Voldemort vanished; the snake reared from the floor, ready to strike.
There was a urst of flame in midair aove Dumledore just as Voldemort reappeared, standing
on the plinth in the middle of the pool where so recently the five statues had stood.
"Look out!" Harry yelled.
But even as he shouted, another jet of green light flew at Dumledore from Voldemort’s wand
and the snake had struck.
Fawkes swooped down in front of Dumledore, opened his eak wide and swallowed the jet of
green light whole: he urst into flame and fell to the floor, small, wrinkled and flightless. At the
same moment, Dumledore randished his wand in one long, fluid movement - the snake, which
had een an instant from sinking its fangs into him, flew high into the air and vanished in a wisp
of dark smoke; and the water in the pool rose up and covered Voldemort like a cocoon of molten
glass.
For a few seconds Voldemort was visile only as a dark, rippling, faceless figure, shimmering
and indistinct upon the plinth, clearly struggling to throw off the suffocating mass.
Then he was gone and the water fell with a crash ack into its pool, slopping wildly over the
sides, drenching the polished floor.
"MASTER!" screamed Bellatrix.
Sure it was over, sure Voldemort had decided to flee, Harry made to run out from ehind his
statue guard, ut Dumledore ellowed: "Stay where you are, Harry!"
For the first time, Dumledore sounded frightened. Harry could not see why: the hall was quite
empty ut for themselves, the soing Bellatrix still trapped under the witch statue, and the ay
phoenix Fawkes croaking feely on the floor
And then Harrys scar urst open and he knew he was dead: it was pain eyond imagining, pain past endurance.
He was gone from the hall, he was locked in the coils of a creature with red eyes, so tightly
ound that Harry did not know where his ody ended and the creature’s egan: they were fused
together, ound y pain, and there was no escape
And when the creature spoke, it used Harry’s mouth, so that in his agony he felt his jaw move
"Kill me now, Dumledore..."
Blinded and dying, every part of him screaming for release, Harry felt the creature use him
again...
"If death is nothing, Dumledore, kill the oy..."
Let the pain stop, thought Harry... let him kill us... end it, Dumledore... death is nothing
compared to this...
And I’ll see Sirius again...
And as Harry’s heart filled with emotion, the creature’s coils loosened, the pain was gone; Harry
was lying face down on the floor, his glasses gone, shivering as though he lay upon ice, not
wood...
And there were voices echoing through the hall, more voices than there should have een...
Harry opened his eyes, saw his glasses lying y the heel of the headless statue that had een
guarding him, ut which now lay flat on its ack, cracked and immoile. He put them on and
raised his head a little to find Dumledore’s crooked nose inches from his own.
"Are you all right, Harry?"
"Yes," said Harry, shaking so violently he could not hold his head up properly. "Yeah, I’m -
where’s Voldemort, where - who are all these - what’s -"
The Atrium was full of people; the floor was reflecting the emerald green flames that had urst
into life in all the fireplaces along one wall; and streams of witches and wizards were emerging
from them. As Dumledore pulled him ack to his feet, Harry saw the tiny gold statues of the
house-elf and the golin, leading a stunned-looking Cornelius Fudge forward.
"He was there!" shouted a scarlet-roed man with a ponytail, who was pointing at a pile of
golden rule on the other side of the hall, where Bellatrix had lain trapped only moments
efore. "I saw him, Mr. Fudge, I swear it was You-Know-Who, he graed a woman and
Disapparated!"
"I know, Williamson, I know, I saw him too!" giered Fudge, who was wearing pajamas under
his pinstriped cloak and was gasping as though he had just run miles. "Merlin’s eard - here -
here! - in the Ministry of Magic! - great heavens aove - it doesn’t seem possile - my word -
how can this e -?"
"If you proceed downstairs into the Department of Mysteries, Cornelius," said Dumledore -
apparently satisfied that Harry was all right, and walking forwards so that the newcomers
realized he was there for the first time (a few of them raised their wands; others simply looked
amazed; the statues of the elf and golin applauded and Fudge jumped so much that his slipperclad feet left the floor) - "you will find several escaped Death Eaters contained in the Death Chamer, ound y an Anti-Disapparation Jinx and awaiting your decision as to what to do with them."
"Dumledore!" gasped Fudge, eside himself with amazement. "You-here-I-I"
He looked wildly around at the Aurors he had rought with him and it could not have een
clearer that he was in half a mind to cry, "Seize him!"
"Cornelius, I am ready to fight your men - and win, again!" said Dumledore in a thunderous
voice. "But a few minutes ago you saw proof, with your own eyes, that I have een telling you
the truth for a year. Lord Voldemort has returned, you have een chasing the wrong man for
twelve months, and it is time - you listened to sense!"
"I - don’t - well" lustered Fudge, looking around as though hoping someody was going to tell
him what to do. When noody did, he said, "Very well - Dawlish! Williamson! Go down to the
Department of Mysteries and see... Dumledore, you - you will need to tell me exactly - the
Fountain of Magical Brethren - what happened?" he added in a kind of whimper, staring around
at the floor, where the remains of the statues of the witch, wizard and centaur now lay scattered.
"We can discuss that after I have sent Harry ack to Hogwarts," said Dumledore.
"Harry - Harry Potter?"
Fudge wheeled around and stared at Harry, who was still standing against the wall eside the
fallen statue that had guarded him during Dumledore and Voldemort’s duel.
"He - here?" said Fudge, goggling at Harry. "Why - what’s all this aout?"
"I shall explain everything," repeated Dumledore, "when Harry is ack at school."
He walked away from the pool to the place where the golden wizard’s head lay on the floor. He
pointed his wand at it and muttered, "Portus." The head glowed lue and tremled noisily against
the wooden floor for a few seconds, then ecame still once more.
"Now see here, Dumledore!" said Fudge, as Dumledore picked up the head and walked ack to Harry carrying it. "You haven’t got authorization for that Portkey! You can’t do things like that right in front of the Minister for Magic, you - you"
His voice faltered as Dumledore surveyed him magisterially over his half-moon spectacles.
"You will give the order to remove Dolores Umridge from Hogwarts," said Dumledore. "You
will tell your Aurors to stop searching for my Care of Magical Creatures teacher so that he can
return to work. I will give you..." Dumledore pulled a watch with twelve hands from his
pocket and surveyed it... "half an hour of my time tonight, in which I think we shall e more
than ale to cover the important points of what has happened here. After that, I shall need to
return to my school. If you need more help from me you are, of course, more than welcome to
contact me at Hogwarts. Letters addressed to the Headmaster will find me."
Fudge goggled worse than ever; his mouth was open and his round face grew pinker under his
rumpled grey hair.
"I - you"
Dumledore turned his ack on him.
"Take this Portkey, Harry."
He held out the golden head of the statue and Harry placed his hand on it, past caring what he did
next or where he went.
"I shall see you in half an hour," said Dumledore quietly "One... two... three..."
Harry felt the familiar sensation of a hook eing jerked ehind his navel. The polished wooden
floor was gone from eneath his feet; the Atrium, Fudge and Dumledore had all disappeared
and he was flying forwards in a whirlwind of color and sound...
CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVEN
The Lost Prophecy
Harry’s feet hit solid ground; his knees uckled a little and the golden wizard’s head fell with a
resounding dunk to the floor. He looked around and saw that he had arrived in Dumledore’s
office.
Everything seemed to have repaired itself during the Headmaster’s asence. The delicate silver
instruments stood once more on the spindle-legged tales, puffing and whirring serenely the
portraits of the headmasters and headmistresses were snoozing in their frames, heads lolling ack
in armchairs or against the edge of the picture. Harry looked through the window. There was a
cool line of pale green along the horizon: dawn was approaching.
The silence and the stillness, roken only y the occasional grunt or snuffle of a sleeping portrait,
was unearale to him. If his surroundings could have reflected the feelings inside him, the
pictures would have een screaming in pain. He walked around the quiet, eautiful office,
reathing quickly, trying not to think. But he had to think... there was no escape...
It was his fault Sirius had died; it was all his fault. If he, Harry, had not een stupid enough to
fall for Voldemort’s trick, if he had not een so convinced that what he had seen in his dream
was real, if he had only opened his mind to the possiility that Voldemort was, as Hermione had
said, anking on Harry’s love of playing the hero...
It was unearale, he would not think aout it, he could not stand it... there was a terrile hollow
inside him he did not want to feel or examine, a dark hole where Sirius had een, where Sirius
had vanished; he did not want to have to e alone with that great, silent space, he could not stand
it -
A picture ehind him gave a particularly loud grunting snore, and a cool voice said, "Ah...
Harry Potter..."
Phineas Nigellus gave a long yawn, stretching his arms as he surveyed Harry out of shrewd,
narrow eyes.
"And what rings you here in the early hours of the morning?" said Phineas eventually "This
office is supposed to e arred to all ut the rightful Headmaster. Or has Dumledore sent you
here? Oh, don’t tell me..." He gave another shuddering yawn. "Another message for my
worthless great-great-grandson?"
Harry could not speak. Phineas Nigellus did not know that Sirius was dead, ut Harry could not
tell him. To say it aloud would e to make it final, asolute, irretrievale.
A few more of the portraits had stirred now. Terror of eing interrogated made Harry stride
across the room and seize the doorkno.
It would not turn. He was shut in.
"I hope this means," said the corpulent, red-nosed wizard who hung on the wall ehind the
Headmaster’s desk, "that Dumledore will soon e ack among us?"
Harry turned. The wizard was surveying him with great interest. Harry nodded. He tugged again
on the doorkno ehind his ack, ut it remained immovale.
"Oh good," said the wizard. "It has een very dull without him, very dull indeed."
He settled himself on the throne-like chair on which he had een painted and smiled enignly
upon Harry
"Dumledore thinks very highly of you, as I am sure you know," he said comfortaly. "Oh yes.
Holds you in great esteem."
The guilt filling the whole of Harry’s chest like some monstrous, weighty parasite, now writhed
and squirmed. Harry could not stand this, he could not stand eing himself any more... he had
never felt more trapped inside his own head and ody, never wished so intensely that he could e
someody; anyody, else...
The empty fireplace urst into emerald green flame, making Harry leap away from the door,
staring at the man spinning inside the grate. As Dumledore’s tall form unfolded itself from the
fire, the wizards and witches on the surrounding walls jerked awake, many of them giving cries
of welcome.
"Thank you," said Dumledore softly.
He did not look at Harry at first, ut walked over to the perch eside the door and withdrew,
from an inside pocket of his roes, the tiny, ugly, featherless Fawkes, whom he placed gently on
the tray of soft ashes eneath the golden post where the full-grown Fawkes usually stood.
"Well, Harry," said Dumledore, finally turning away from the ay ird, "you will e pleased to hear that none of your fellow students are going to suffer lasting damage from the night’s
events."
Harry tried to say, "Good," ut no sound came out. It seemed to him that Dumledore was
reminding him of the amount of damage he had caused, and although Dumledore was for once
looking at him directly, and although his expression was kindly rather than accusatory, Harry
could not ear to meet his eyes.
"Madam Pomfrey is patching everyody up," said Dumledore. "Nymphadora Tonks may need
to spend a little time in St. Mungo’s, ut it seems she will make a full recovery."
Harry contented himself with nodding at the carpet, which was growing lighter as the sky outside
grew paler. He was sure all the portraits around the room were listening closely to every word
Dumledore spoke, wondering where Dumledore and Harry had een, and why there had een
injuries.
"I know how you’re feeling, Harry," said Dumledore very quietly.
"No, you don’t," said Harry, and his voice was suddenly loud and strong; white-hot anger leapt
inside him; Dumledore knew nothing aout his feelings.
"You see, Dumledore?" said Phineas Nigellus slyly "Never try to understand the students. They
hate it. They would much rather e tragically misunderstood, wallow in self-pity, stew in their
own -"
"That’s enough, Phineas," said Dumledore.
Harry turned his ack on Dumledore and stared determinedly out of the window. He could see
the Quidditch stadium in the distance. Sirius had appeared there once, disguised as the shaggy
lack dog, so he could watch Harry play... he had proaly come to see whether Harry was as
good as James had een... Harry had never asked him...
"There is no shame in what you are feeling, Harry," said Dumledore’s voice. "On the contrary... the fact that you can feel pain like this is your greatest strength."
Harry felt the white-hot anger lick his insides, lazing in the terrile emptiness, filling him with
the desire to hurt Dumledore for his calmness and his empty words.
"My greatest strength, is it?" said Harry, his voice shaking as he stared out at the Quidditch
stadium, no longer seeing it. "You haven’t got a clue... you don’t know..."
"What don’t I know?" asked Dumledore calmly.
It was too much. Harry turned around, shaking with rage.
"I don’t want to talk aout how I feel, all right?"
"Harry, suffering like this proves you are still a man! This pain is part of eing human"
"THEN - I - DON’T - WANT - TO - BE - HUMAN!" Harry roared, and he seized the delicate
silver instrument from the spindlelegged tale eside him and flung it across the room; it
shattered into a hundred tiny pieces against the wall. Several of the pictures let out yells of anger
and fright, and the portrait of Armando Dippet said, "Really!"
"I DON’T CARE!" Harry yelled at them, snatching up a lunascope and throwing it into the
fireplace. "I’VE HAD ENOUGH, I’VE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I WANT IT TO END,
I DON’T CARE ANY MORE"
He seized the tale on which the silver instrument had stood and threw that, too. It roke apart on
the floor and the legs rolled in different directions.
"You do care," said Dumledore. He had not flinched or made a single move to stop Harry
demolishing his office. His expression was calm, almost detached. "You care so much you feel as though you will leed to death with the pain of it."
"I - DON’T!" Harry screamed, so loudly that he felt his throat might tear, and for a second he
wanted to rush at Dumledore and reak him, too; shatter that calm old face, shake him, hurt
him, make him feel some tiny part of the horror inside himself.
"Oh, yes, you do," said Dumledore, still more calmly. "You have now lost your mother, your
father, and the closest thing to a parent you have ever known. Of course you care."
"YOU DON’T KNOW HOW I FEEL!" Harry roared. "YOU - STANDING THERE - YOU"
But words were no longer enough, smashing things was no more help; he wanted to run, he
wanted to keep running and never look ack, he wanted to e somewhere he could not see the
clear lue eyes staring at him, that hatefully calm old face. He turned on his heel and ran to the
door, seized the doorkno again and wrenched at it.
But the door would not open. Harry turned ack to Dumledore. "Let me out," he said. He was
shaking from head to foot.
"No," said Dumledore, simply. For a few seconds they stared at each other.
"Let me out," Harry said again.
"No," Dumledore repeated.
"If you don’t - if you keep me in here - if you don ‘t let me"
"By all means continue destroying my possessions," said Dumledore serenely. "I daresay I have
too many."
He walked around his desk and sat down. ehind it, watching Harry.
"Let me out," Harry said yet again, in a voice that was cold and almost as calm as
Dumledore’s.
"Not until I have had my say," said Dumledore.
"Do you - do you think I want to - do you think I give a - I DON’T CARE WHAT YOU’VE
GOT TO SAY!" Harry roared. "I don’t want to hear anything you’ve got to say!"
"You will," said Dumledore steadily. "Because you are not nearly as angry with me as you
ought to e. If you are to attack me, as I know you are close to doing, I would like to have
thoroughly earned it."
"What are you talking -?"
"It is my fault that Sirius died," said Dumledore clearly. "Or should I say, almost entirely my
fault - I will not e so arrogant as to claim responsiility for the whole. Sirius was a rave, clever
and energetic man, and such men are not usually content to sit at home in hiding while they
elieve others to e in danger. Nevertheless, you should never have elieved for an instant that
there was any necessity for you to go to the Department of Mysteries tonight. If I had een open
with you, Harry, as I should have een, you would have known a long time ago that Voldemort
might try and lure you to the Department of Mysteries, and you would never have een tricked
into going there tonight. And Sirius would not have had to come after you. That lame lies with
me, and with me alone."
Harry was still standing with his hand on the doorkno ut was unaware of it. He was gazing at
Dumledore, hardly reathing, listening yet arely understanding what he was hearing.
"Please sit down," said Dumledore. It was not an order, it was a request.
Harry hesitated, then walked slowly across the room now littered with silver cogs and fragments
of wood, and took the seat facing Dumledore’s desk.
"Am I to understand," said Phineas Nigellus slowly from Harry’s left, "that my great-great-grandson - the last of the Blacks - is dead?"
"Yes, Phineas," said Dumledore.
"I don’t elieve it," said Phineas rusquely.
Harry turned his head in time to see Phineas marching out of his portrait and knew that he had
gone to visit his other painting in Grimmauld Place. He would walk, perhaps, from portrait to
portrait, calling for Sirius through the house...
"Harry, I owe you an explanation," said Dumledore. "An explanation of an old man’s mistakes.
For I see now that what I have done, and not done, with regard to you, ears all the hallmarks of
the failings of age. Youth cannot know how age thinks and feels. But old men are guilty if they
forget what it was to e young... and I seem to have forgotten, lately..."
The sun was rising properly now; there was a rim of dazzling orange visile over the mountains
and the sky aove it was colorless and right. The light fell upon Dumledore, upon the silver
of his eyerows and eard, upon the lines gouged deeply into his face.
"I guessed, fifteen years ago," said Dumledore, "when I saw the scar on your forehead, what it
might mean. I guessed that it might e the sign of a connection forged etween you and
Voldemort."
"You’ve told me this efore, Professor," said Harry luntly. He did not care aout eing rude. He
did not care aout anything very much any more.
"Yes," said Dumledore apologetically. "Yes, ut you see - it is necessary to start with your scar. For it ecame apparent, shortly after you rejoined the magical world, that I was correct, and that your scar was giving you warnings when Voldemort was close to you, or else feeling powerful emotion."
"I know," said Harry wearily.
"And this aility of yours - to detect Voldemort’s presence, even when he is disguised, and to
know what he is feeling when his emotions are roused - has ecome more and more pronounced
since Voldemort returned to his own ody and his full powers."
Harry did not other to nod. He knew all of this already.
"More recently" said Dumledore, "I ecame concerned that Voldemort might realize that this
connection etween you exists. Sure enough, there came a time when you entered so far into his
mind and thoughts that he sensed your presence. I am speaking, of course, of the night when you
witnessed the attack on Mr. Weasley"
"Yeah, Snape told me," Harry muttered.
"Professor Snape, Harry" Dumledore corrected him quietly. "But did you not wonder why it was not I who explained this to you? Why I did not teach you Occlumency? Why I had not so much as looked at you for months?"
Harry looked up. He could see now that Dumledore looked sad and tired.
"Yeah," Harry mumled. "Yeah, I wondered."
"You see," Dumledore continued, "I elieved it could not e long efore Voldemort attempted
to force his way into your mind, to manipulate and misdirect your thoughts, and I was not eager
to give him more incentives to do so. I was sure that if he realized that our relationship was - or
had ever een - closer than that of headmaster and pupil, he would seize his chance to use you as
a means to spy on me. I feared the uses to which he would put you, the possiility that he might
try and possess you. Harry, I elieve I was right to think that Voldemort would have made use of
you in such a way. On those rare occasions when we had close contact, I thought I saw a shadow
of him stir ehind your eyes..."
Harry rememered the feeling that a dormant snake had risen in him, ready to strike, in those
moments when he and Dumledore had made eye-contact.
"Voldemort’s aim in possessing you, as he demonstrated tonight, would not have een my
destruction. It would have een yours. He hoped, when he possessed you riefly a short while
ago, that I would sacrifice you in the hope of killing him. So you see, I have een trying, in
distancing myself from you, to protect you, Harry. An old man’s mistake..."
He sighed deeply. Harry was letting the words wash over him. He would have een so interested
to know all this a few months ago, ut now it was meaningless compared to the gaping chasm
inside him that was the loss of Sirius; none of it mattered...
"Sirius told me you felt Voldemort awake inside you the very night that you had the vision of
Arthur Weasley’s attack. I knew at once that my worst fears were correct: Voldemort had
realized he could use you. In an attempt to arm you against Voldemort’s assaults on your mind, I
arranged Occlumency lessons with Professor Snape."
He paused. Harry watched the sunlight, which was sliding slowly across the polished surface of
Dumledore’s desk, illuminate a silver ink pot and a handsome scarlet quill. Harry could tell that
the portraits all around them were awake and listening raptly to Dumledore’s explanation; he
could hear the occasional rustle of roes, the slight clearing of a throat. Phineas Nigellus had still
not returned...
"Professor Snape discovered," Dumledore resumed, " that you had een dreaming aout the door to the Department of Mysteries for months. Voldemort, of course, had een osessed with the possiility of hearing the prophecy ever since he regained his ody; and as he dwelled on the
door, so did you, though you did not know what it meant.
"And then you saw Rockwood, who worked in the Department of Mysteries efore his arrest,
telling Voldemort what we had known all along - that the prophecies held in the Ministry of
Magic are heavily protected. Only the people to whom they refer can lift them from the shelves
without suffering madness: in this case, either Voldemort himself would have to enter the
Ministry of Magic, and risk revealing himself at last - or else you would have to take it for him.
It ecame a matter of even greater urgency that you should master Occlumency"
"But I didn’t," muttered Harry. He said it aloud to try and ease the dead weight of guilt inside
him: a confession must surely relieve some of the terrile pressure squeezing his heart. "I didn’t
practice, I didn’t other, I could’ve stopped myself having those dreams, Hermione kept telling
me to do it, if I had he’d never have een ale to show me where to go, and - Sirius wouldn’t -
Sirius wouldn’t"
Something was erupting inside Harry’s head: a need to justify himself, to explain -
"I tried to check he’d really taken Sirius, I went to Umridge’s office, I spoke to Kreacher in the
fire and he said Sirius wasn’t there, he said he’d gone!"
"Kreacher lied," said Dumledore calmly. "You are not his master, he could lie to you without
even needing to punish himself. Kreacher intended you to go to the Ministry of Magic."
"He - he sent me on purpose?"
"Oh yes. Kreacher, I am afraid, has een serving more than one master for months."
"How?" said Harry lankly. "He hasn’t een out of Grimmauld Place for years."
"Kreacher seized his opportunity shortly efore Christmas," said Dumledore, "when Sirius,
apparently, shouted at him to ‘get out’. He took Sirius at his word, and interpreted this as an order to leave the house. He went to the only Black family memer for whom he had any respect left... Black’s cousin Narcissa, sister of Bellatrix and wife of Lucius Malfoy"
"How do you know all this?" Harry said. His heart was eating very fast. He felt sick. He
rememered worrying aout Kreacher’s odd asence over Christmas, rememered him turning
up again in the attic...
"Kreacher told me last night," said Dumledore. "You see, when you gave Professor Snape that
cryptic warning, he realized that you had had a vision of Sirius trapped in the owels of the
Department of Mysteries. He, like you, attempted to contact Sirius at once. I should explain that
memers of the Order of the Phoenix have more reliale methods of communicating than the fire
in Dolores Umridge’s office. Professor Snape found that Sirius was alive and safe in
Grimmauld Place.
"When, however, you did not return from your trip into the Forest with Dolores Umridge,
Professor Snape grew worried that you still elieved Sirius to e a captive of Lord Voldemort’s.
He alerted certain Order memers at once."
Dumledore heaved a great sigh and continued, "Alastor Moody, Nymphadora Tonks, Kingsley
Shackleolt and Remus Lupin were at Headquarters when he made contact. All agreed to go to
your aid at once. Professor Snape requested that Sirius remain ehind, as he needed someody to
remain at Headquarters to tell me what had happened, for I was due there at any moment. In the
meantime he, Professor Snape, intended to search the Forest for you.
"But Sirius did not wish to remain ehind while the others went to search for you. He delegated
to Kreacher the task of telling me what had happened. And so it was that when I arrived in
Grimmauld Place shortly after they had all left for the Ministry, it was the elf who told me -
laughing fit to urst - where Sirius had gone."
"He was laughing?" said Harry in a hollow voice.
"Oh, yes," said Dumledore. "You see, Kreacher was not ale to etray us totally. He is not
Secret Keeper for the Order, he could not give the Malfoys our whereaouts, or tell them any of
the Order’s confidential plans that he had een foridden to reveal. He was ound y the
enchantments of his kind, which is to say that he could not disoey a direct order from his
master, Sirius. But he gave Narcissa information of the sort that is very valuale to Voldemort,
yet must have seemed much too trivial for Sirius to think of anning him from repeating it."
"Like what?" said Harry.
"Like the fact that the person Sirius cared most aout in the world was you," said Dumledore
quietly. "Like the fact that you were coming to regard Sirius as a mixture of father and rother.
Voldemort knew already, of course, that Sirius was in the Order, and that you knew where he
was - ut Kreacher’s information made him realize that the one person for whom you would go
to any lengths to rescue was Sirius Black."
Harry’s lips were cold and num.
"So... when I asked Kreacher if Sirius was there last night..."
"The Malfoys - undoutedly on Voldemort’s instructions - had told him he must find a way of
keeping Sirius out of the way once you had seen the vision of Sirius eing tortured. Then, if you
decided to check whether Sirius was at home or not, Kreacher would e ale to pretend he was
not. Kreacher injured Buckeak the Hippogriff yesterday, and, at the moment when you made
your appearance in the fire, Sirius was upstairs tending to him."
There seemed to e very little air in Harry’s lungs; his reathing was quick and shallow.
"And Kreacher told you all this... and laughed?" he croaked.
"He did not wish to tell me," said Dumledore. "But I am a sufficiently accomplished Legilimens myself to know when I am eing lied to and I - persuaded him - to tell me the full story, efore I left for the Department of Mysteries."
"And," whispered Harry, his hands curled in cold fists on his knees, "and Hermione kept telling
us to e nice to him"
"She was quite right, Harry," said Dumledore. "I warned Sirius when we adopted twelve
Grimmauld Place as our Headquarters that Kreacher must e treated with kindness and respect. I
also told him that Kreacher could e dangerous to us. I do not think Sinus took me very
seriously, or that he ever saw Kreacher as a eing with feelings as acute as a human’s"
"Don’t you lame - don’t you - talk - aout Sirius like -" Harry’s reath was constricted, he could not get the words out properly; ut the rage that had susided riefly flared in him again: he would not let Dumledore criticize Sirius. "Kreacher’s a lying - foul - he deserved -"
"Kreacher is what he has een made y wizards, Harry" said Dumledore. "Yes, he is to e
pitied. His existence has een as miserale as your friend Doy’s. He was forced to do Sirius’s
idding, ecause Sirius was the last of the family to which he was enslaved, ut he felt no true
loyalty to him. And whatever Kreacher’s faults, it must e admitted that Sirius did nothing to
make Kreacher’s lot easier"
"DON’T TALK ABOUT SIRIUS LIKE THAT!" Harry yelled.
He was on his feet again, furious, ready to fly at Dumledore, who had plainly not understood
Sirius at all, how rave he was, how much he had suffered...
"What aout Snape?" Harry spat. "You’re not talking aout him, are you? When I told him
Voldemort had Sirius he just sneered at me as usual -"
"Harry, you know Professor Snape had no choice ut to pretend not to take you seriously in front
of Dolores Umridge," said Dumledore steadily, "ut as I have explained, he informed the
Order as soon as possile aout what you had said. It was he who deduced where you had gone
when you did not return from the Forest. It was he, too, who gave Professor Umridge fake
Veritaserum when she was attempting to force you to tell her Sirius’s whereaouts."
Harry disregarded this; he felt a savage pleasure in laming Snape, it seemed to e easing his
own sense of dreadful guilt, and he wanted to hear Dumledore agree with him.
"Snape - Snape g - goaded Sirius aout staying in the house - he made out Sirius was a coward"
"Sirius was much too old and clever to have allowed such feele taunts to hurt him," said
Dumledore.
"Snape stopped giving me Occlumency lessons!" Harry snarled. "He threw me out of his office!"
"I am aware of it," said Dumledore heavily "I have already said that it was a mistake for me not
to teach you myself, though I was sure, at the time, that nothing could have een more dangerous
than to open your mind even further to Voldemort while in my presence -"
"Snape made it worse, my scar always hurt worse after lessons with him" Harry rememered
Ron’s thoughts on the suject and plunged on "- how do you know he wasn’t trying to soften me
up for Voldemort, make it easier for him to get inside my -"
"I trust Severus Snape," said Dumledore simply "But I forgot - another old man’s mistake - that
some wounds run too deep for the healing. I thought Professor Snape could overcome his
feelings aout your father - I was wrong."
"But that’s okay, is it?" yelled Harry, ignoring the scandalized faces and disapproving mutterings
of the portraits on the walls. "It’s okay for Snape to hate my dad, ut it’s not okay for Sirius to hate Kreacher?"
"Sirius did not hate Kreacher," said Dumledore. "He regarded him as a servant unworthy of
much interest or notice. Indifference and neglect often do much more damage than outright
dislike... the fountain we destroyed tonight told a lie. We wizards have mistreated and aused
our fellows for too long, and we are now reaping our reward."
"SO SIRIUS DESERVED WHAT HE GOT, DID HE?" Harry yelled.
"I did not say that, nor will you ever hear me say it," Dumledore replied quietly. "Sirius was not a cruel man, he was kind to house-elves in general. He had no love for Kreacher, ecause
Kreacher was a living reminder of the home Sirius had hated."
"Yeah, he did hate it!" said Harry, his voice cracking, turning his ack on Dumledore and
walking away. The sun was right inside the room now and the eyes of all the portraits followed
him as he walked, without realizing what he was doing, without seeing the office at all. "You
made him stay shut up in that house and he hated it, that’s why he wanted to get out last night"
"I was trying to keep Sirius alive," said Dumledore quietly
"People don’t like eing locked up!" Harry said furiously, rounding on him. "You did it to me all
last summer"
Dumledore closed his eyes and uried his face in his longfingered hands. Harry watched him,
ut this uncharacteristic sign of exhaustion, or sadness, or whatever it was from Dumledore, did
not soften him. On the contrary, he felt even angrier that Dumledore was showing signs of
weakness. He had no usiness eing weak when Harry wanted to rage and storm at him.
Dumledore lowered his hands and surveyed Harry through his half-moon glasses.
"It is time," he said, "for me to tell you what I should have told you five years ago, Harry. Please sit down. I am going to tell you everything. I ask only a little patience. You will have your
chance to rage at me - to do whatever you like - when I have finished. I will not stop you."
Harry glared at him for a moment, then flung himself ack into the chair opposite Dumledore
and waited.
Dumledore stared for a moment at the sunlit grounds outside the window, then looked ack at
Harry and said, "Five years ago you arrived at Hogwarts, Harry, safe and whole, as I had planned
and intended. Well - not quite whole. You had suffered. I knew you would when I left you on
your aunt and uncle’s doorstep. I knew I was condemning you to ten dark and difficult years."
He paused. Harry said nothing.
"You might ask - and with good reason - why it had to e so. Why could some wizarding family
not have taken you in? Many would have done so more than gladly, would have een honored
and delighted to raise you as a son.
"My answer is that my priority was to keep you alive. You were in more danger than perhaps
anyone ut I realized. Voldemort had een vanquished hours efore, ut his supporters - and
many of them are almost as terrile as he - were still at large, angry, desperate and violent. And I
had to make my decision, too, with regard to the years ahead. Did I elieve that Voldemort was
gone for ever? No. I knew not whether it would e ten, twenty or fifty years efore he returned,
ut I was sure he would do so, and I was sure, too, knowing him as I have done, that he would
not rest until he killed you.
"I knew that Voldemort’s knowledge of magic is perhaps more extensive than any wizard alive. I knew that even my most complex and powerful protective spells and charms were unlikely to e
invincile if he ever returned to full power.
"But I knew, too, where Voldemort was weak. And so I made my decision. You would e
protected y an ancient magic of which he knows, which he despises, and which he has always,
therefore, underestimated - to his cost. I am speaking, of course, of the fact that your mother died
to save you. She gave you a lingering protection he never expected, a protection that flows in
your veins to this day. I put my trust, therefore, in your mother’s lood. I delivered you to her
sister, her only remaining relative."
"She doesn’t love me," said Harry at once. "She doesn’t give a damn -"
"But she took you," Dumledore cut across him. "She may have taken you grudgingly, furiously,
unwillingly, itterly, yet still she took you, and in doing so, she sealed the charm I placed upon
you. Your mother’s sacrifice made the ond of lood the strongest shield I could give you."
"I still don’t."
"While you can still call home the place where your mother’s lood dwells, there you cannot e
touched or harmed y Voldemort. He shed her lood, ut it lives on in you and her sister. Her
lood ecame your refuge. You need return there only once a year, ut as long as you can still
call it home, while you are there he cannot hurt you. Your aunt knows this. I explained what I
had done in the letter I left, with you, on her doorstep. She knows that allowing you houseroom
may well have kept you alive for the past fifteen years."
"Wait," said Harry. "Wait a moment."
He sat up straighter in his chair, staring at Dumledore.
"You sent that Howler. You told her to rememer - it was your voice -"
"I thought," said Dumledore, inclining his head slightly, "that she might need reminding of the
pact she had sealed y taking you. I suspected the Dementor attack might have awoken her to the
dangers of having you as a surrogate son."
"It did," said Harry quietly. "Well - my uncle more than her. He wanted to chuck me out, ut after the Howler came she - she said I had to stay"
He stared at the floor for a moment, then said, "But what’s this got to do with - "
He could not say Sirius’s name.
"Five years ago, then," continued Dumledore, as though he had not paused in his story, "you
arrived at Hogwarts, neither as happy nor as well-nourished as I would have liked, perhaps, yet
alive and healthy. You were not a pampered little prince, ut as normal a oy as I could have
hoped under the circumstances. Thus far, my plan was working well.
"And then... well, you will rememer the events of your first year at Hogwarts quite as clearly
as I do. You rose magnificently to the challenge that faced you and sooner - much sooner - than I
had anticipated, you found yourself face to face with Voldemort. You survived again. You did
more. You delayed his return to full power and strength. You fought a man’s fight. I was...
prouder of you than I can say.
"Yet there was a flaw in this wonderful plan of mine," said Dumledore. "An ovious flaw that I
knew, even then, might e the undoing of it all. And yet, knowing how important it was that my
plan should succeed, I told myself that I would not permit this flaw to ruin it. I alone could
prevent this, so I alone must e strong. And here was my first test, as you lay in the hospital
wing, weak from your struggle with Voldemort."
"I don’t understand what you’re saying," said Harry.
"Don’t you rememer asking me, as you lay in the hospital wing, why Voldemort had tried to kill you when you were a ay?"
Harry nodded.
"Ought I to have told you then?"
Harry stared into the lue eyes and said nothing, ut his heart was racing again.
"You do not see the flaw in the plan yet? No... perhaps not. Well, as you know, I decided not to
answer you. Eleven, I told myself, was much too young to know. I had never intended to tell you
when you were eleven. The knowledge would e too much at such a young age.
"I should have recognized the danger signs then. I should have asked myself why I did not feel
more distured that you had already asked me the question to which I knew, one day, I must give
a terrile answer. I should have recognized that I was too happy to think that I did not have to do
it on that particular day... YOU were too young, much too young.
"And so we entered your second year at Hogwarts. And once again you met challenges even
grown wizards have never faced: once again you acquitted yourself eyond my wildest dreams.
You did not ask me again, however, why Voldemort had left that mark on you. We discussed
your scar, oh yes... we came very, very close to the suject. Why did I not tell you everything?
"Well, it seemed to me that twelve was, after all, hardly etter than eleven to receive such
information. I allowed you to leave my presence, loodstained, exhausted ut exhilarated, and if
I felt a twinge of unease that I ought, perhaps, to have told you then, it was swiftly silenced. You
were still so young, you see, and I could not find it in myself to spoil that night of triumph...
"Do you see, Harry? Do you see the flaw in my rilliant plan now? I had fallen into the trap I had foreseen, that I had told myself I could avoid, that I must avoid."
"I don’t -"
"I cared aout you too much," said Dumledore simply. "I cared more for your happiness than
your knowing the truth, more for your peace of mind than my plan, more for your life than the
lives that might e lost if the plan failed. In other words, I acted exactly as Voldemort expects we
fools who love to act.
"Is there a Defense? I defy anyone who has watched you as I have - and I have watched you more closely than you can have imagined - not to want to save you more pain than you had already suffered. What did I care if numers of nameless and faceless people and creatures were
slaughtered in the vague future, if in the here and now you were alive, and well, and happy? I
never dreamed that I would have such a person on my hands.
"We entered your third year. I watched from afar as you struggled to repel Dementors, as you
found Sirius, learned what he was and rescued him. Was I to tell you then, at the moment when
you had triumphantly snatched your godfather from the jaws of the Ministry? But now, at the age
of thirteen, my excuses were running out. Young you might e, ut you had proved you were
exceptional. My conscience was uneasy, Harry. I knew the time must come soon...
"But you came out of the maze last year, having watched Cedric Diggory die, having escaped
death so narrowly yourself... and I did not tell you, though I knew, now Voldemort had
returned, I must do it soon. And now, tonight, I know you have long een ready for the
knowledge I have kept from you for so long, ecause you have proved that I should have placed
the urden upon you efore this. My only Defense is this: I have watched you struggling under
more urdens than any student who as ever passed through this school and I could not ring
myself to add another - the greatest one of all."
Harry waited, ut Dumledore did not speak.
"I still don’t understand."
"Voldemort tried to kill you when you were a child ecause of a prophecy made shortly efore
your irth. He knew the prophecy had een made, though he did not know its full contents. He
set out to kill you when you were still a ay, elieving he was fulfilling the terms of the
prophecy. He discovered, to his cost, that he was mistaken, when the curse intended to kill you
ackfired. And so, since his return to his ody, and particularly since your extraordinary escape
from him last year, he has een determined to hear that prophecy in its entirety. This is the
weapon he has een seeking so assiduously since his return: the knowledge of how to destroy
you."
The sun had risen fully now: Dumledore’s office was athed in it. The glass case in which the
sword of Godric Gryffindor resided gleamed white and opaque, the fragments of the instruments
Harry had thrown to the floor glistened like raindrops, and ehind him, the ay Fawkes made
soft chirruping noises in his nest of ashes.
"The prophecy’s smashed," Harry said lankly. "I was pulling Neville up those enches in the -
the room where the archway was, and I ripped his roes and it fell..."
"The thing that smashed was merely the record of the prophecy kept y the Department of
Mysteries. But the prophecy was made to someody, and that person has the means of recalling
it perfectly"
"Who heard it?" asked Harry, though he thought he knew the answer already
"I did," said Dumledore. "On a cold, wet night sixteen years ago, in a room aove the ar at the
Hog’s Head inn. I had gone there to see an applicant for the post of Divination teacher, though it
was against my inclination to allow the suject of Divination to continue at all. The applicant,
however, was the great-great-granddaughter of a very famous, very gifted Seer and I thought it
common politeness to meet her. I was disappointed. It seemed to me that she had not a trace of
the gift herself. I told her, courteously I hope, that I did not think she would e suitale for the
post. I turned to leave."
Dumledore got to his feet and walked past Harry to the lack cainet that stood eside
Fawkes’s perch. He ent down, slid ack a catch and took from inside it the shallow stone asin,
carved with runes around the edges, in which Harry had seen his father tormenting Snape.
Dumledore walked ack to the desk, placed the Pensieve upon it, and raised his wand to his
own temple. From it, he withdrew silvery, gossamer-fine strands of thought clinging to the wand
and deposited them into the asin. He sat ack down ehind his desk and watched his thoughts
swirl and drift inside the Pensieve for a moment. Then, with a sigh, he raised his wand and
prodded the silvery sustance with its tip.
A figure rose out of it, draped in shawls, her eyes magnified to enormous size ehind her glasses,
and she revolved slowly; her feet in the asin. But when Siyll Trelawney spoke, it was not in
her usual ethereal, mystic voice, ut in the harsh, hoarse tones Harry had heard her use once
efore:
"The one with the power to vanquish the - Dark Lord approaches... orn to those who have thrice defied him, orn as the seventh month dies... and the Dark Lord will mark him as his equal, ut he will have power the Dark Lord knows not... and either must die at the hand of the other for neither can live while the other survives... the one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord will e orn as the seventh month dies..."
The slowly revolving Professor Trelawney sank ack into the silver mass elow and vanished.
The silence within the office was asolute. Neither Dumledore nor Harry nor any of the
portraits made a sound. Even Fawkes had fallen silent.
"Professor Dumledore?" Harry said very quietly, for Dumledore, still staring at the Pensieve,
seemed completely lost in thought. "It... did that mean... what did that mean?"
"It meant," said Dumledore, "that the person who has the only chance of conquering Lord
Voldemort for good was orn at the end of July, nearly sixteen years ago. This oy would e
orn to parents who had already defied Voldemort three times."
Harry felt as though something was closing in on him. His reathing seemed difficult again.
"It means - me?"
Dumledore surveyed him for a moment through his glasses.
"The odd thing, Harry," he said softly, "is that it may not have meant you at all. Siyll’s prophecy could have applied to two wizard oys, oth orn at the end of July that year, oth of whom had parents in the Order of the Phoenix, oth sets of parents having narrowly escaped Voldemort three times. One, of course, was you. The other was Neville Longottom."
"But then... ut then, why was it my name on the prophecy and not Neville’s?"
"The official record was re-laeled after Voldemort’s attack on you as a child," said
Dumledore. "It seemed plain to the keeper of the Hall of Prophecy that Voldemort could only
have tried to kill you ecause he knew you to e the one to whom Siyll was referring."
"Then - it might not e me?" said Harry
"I am afraid," said Dumledore slowly, looking as though every word cost him a great effort,
"that there is no dout that it is you."
"But you said - Neville was orn at the end of July, too - and his mum and dad -"
"You are forgetting the next part of the prophecy, the final identifying feature of the oy who
could vanquish Voldemort... Voldemort himself would mark him as his equal. And so he did,
Harry. He chose you, not Neville. He gave you the scar that has proved oth lessing and curse."
"But he might have chosen wrong!" said Harry. "He might have marked the wrong person!"
"He chose the oy he thought most likely to e a danger to him," said Dumledore. "And notice
this, Harry: he chose, not the purelood (which, according to his creed, is the only kind of wizard
worth eing or knowing) ut the half-lood, like himself. He saw himself in you efore he had
ever seen you, and in marking you with that scar, he did not kill you, as he intended, ut gave
you powers, and a future, which have fitted you to escape him not once, ut four times so far -
something that neither your parents, nor Neville’s parents, ever achieved."
"Why did he do it, then?" said Harry, who felt num and cold. "Why did he try and kill me as a
ay? He should have waited to see whether Neville or I looked more dangerous when we were
older and tried to kill whoever it was then -"
"That might, indeed, have een the more practical course," said Dumledore, "except that
Voldemort’s information aout the prophecy was incomplete. The Hog’s Head inn, which Siyll
chose for its cheapness, has long attracted, shall we say, a more interesting clientele than the
Three Broomsticks. As you and your friends found out to your cost, and I to mine that night, it is
a place where it is never safe to assume you are not eing overheard. Of course, I had not
dreamed, when I set out to meet Siyll Trelawney, that I would hear anything worth overhearing.
My - our - one stroke of good fortune was that the eavesdropper was detected only a short way
into the prophecy and thrown from the uilding."
"So he only heard -?"
"He heard only the eginning, the part foretelling the irth of a oy in July to parents who had
thrice defied Voldemort. Consequently, he could not warn his master that to attack you would e
to risk transferring power to you, and marking you as his equal. So Voldemort never knew that
there might e danger in attacking you, that it might e wise to wait, to learn more. He did not
know that you would have power the Dark Lord knows not-"
"But I don’t!" said Harry, in a strangled voice. "I haven’t any powers he hasn’t got, I couldn’t
fight the way he did tonight, I can’t possess people or - or kill them -"
"There is a room in the Department of Mysteries," interrupted Dumledore, "that is kept locked at all times. It contains a force that is at once more wonderful and more terrile than death, than
human intelligence, than the forces of nature. It is also, perhaps, the most mysterious of the many
sujects for study that reside there. It is the power held within that room that you possess in such
quantities and which Voldemort has not at all. That power took you to save Sirius tonight. That
power also saved you from possession y Voldemort, ecause he could not ear to reside in a
ody so full of the force he detests. In the end, it mattered not that you could not close your
mind. It was your heart that saved you."
Harry closed his eyes. If he had not gone to save Sirius, Sirius would not have died... More to
stave off the moment when he would have to think of Sirius again, Harry asked, without caring
much aout the answer, "The end of the prophecy... it was something aout neither... can live..."
"... while the other survives," said Dumledore.
"So," said Harry, dredging up the words from what felt like a deep well of despair inside him,
"so does that mean that... that one of us has got to kill the other one... in the end?"
"Yes," said Dumledore.
For a long time, neither of them spoke. Somewhere far eyond the office walls, Harry could hear
the sound of voices, students heading down to the Great Hall for an early reakfast, perhaps. It
seemed impossile that there could e people in the world who still desired food, who laughed,
who neither knew nor cared that Sirius Black was gone forever. Sirius seemed a million miles
away already; even now a part of Harry still elieved that if he had only pulled ack that veil, he
would have found Sirius looking ack at him, greeting him, perhaps, with his laugh like a ark...
"I feel I owe you another explanation, Harry," said Dumledore hesitantly. "You may, perhaps,
have wondered why I never chose you as a prefect? I must confess... that I rather thought... you
had enough responsiility to e going on with."
Harry looked up at him and saw a tear trickling down Dumledore’s face into his long silver
eard.
CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHT
The Second War Begins
HE-WHO-MUST-NOT-BE-NAMED RETURNS
"In a rief statement on Friday night, Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge confirmed that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has returned to this country and is active once more.
"‘It is with great regret that I must confirm that t he wizard styling himself Lord - well, you know
who I mean - is alive and among us again,’ said Fudge, looking tired and flustered as he
addressed reporters. ‘It is with almost equal regret that we report the mass revolt of the
Dementors of Azkaan, who have shown themselves averse to continuing in the Ministry’s
employ. We elieve the Dementors are currently taking direction from Lord - Thingy.
"‘We urge the magical population to remain vigilant. The Ministry is currently pulishing guides
to elementary home and personal Defense which will e delivered free to all wizarding homes
within the coming month.’
The Minister’s statement was met with dismay and alarm from the wizarding community, which
as recently as last Wednesday was receiving Ministry assurances that there was ‘no truth
whatsoever in these persistent rumors that You-Know-Who is operating amongst us once
more’.
"Details of the events that led to the Ministry turnaround are still hazy, though it is elieved that
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named and a select and of followers (known as Death Eaters) gained
entry to the Ministry of Magic itself on Thursday evening.
"Alus Dumledore, newly reinstated Headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry, reinstated memer of the International Confederation of Wizards and reinstated Chief
Warlock of the Wizengamot, has so far een unavailale for comment. He has insisted over the
past year that You-Know-Who is not dead, as was widely hoped and elieved, ut is recruiting
followers once more for afresh attempt to seize power. Meanwhile, the ‘Boy Who Lived’ -"
"There you are, Harry, I knew they’d drag you into it somehow," said Hermione, looking over the top of the paper at him.
They were in the hospital wing. Harry was sitting on the end of Ron’s ed and they were oth
listening to Hermione read the front page of the Sun day Prophet. Ginny, whose ankle had een
mended in a trice y Madam Pomfrey, was curled up at the foot of Hermione’s ed; Neville,
whose nose had likewise een returned to its normal size and shape, was in a chair etween the
two eds; and Luna, who had dropped in to visit, clutching the latest edition of The Quiler, was reading the magazine upside-down and apparently not taking in a word Hermione was saying.
"He’s the ‘oy who lived’ again now, though, isn’t he?" said Ron darkly. "Not such a deluded
show-off any more, eh?"
He helped himself to a handful of Chocolate Frogs from the immense pile on his edside cainet,
threw a few to Harry, Ginny and Neville and ripped off the wrapper of his own with his teeth.
There were still deep welts on his forearms where the rain’s tentacles had wrapped around him.
According to Madam Pomfrey, thoughts could leave deeper scarring than almost anything else,
though since she had started applying copious amounts of Dr. Uly’s Olivious Unction there
seemed to have een some improvement.
"Yes, they’re very complimentary aout you now, Harry," said Hermione, scanning down the
article. "‘A lone voice of truth... perceived as unalanced, yet never wavered in his story... forced to ear ridicule and slander... ’ Hmmm," she said, frowning, "I notice they don’t mention the fact that it was them doing all the ridiculing and slandering in the Prophet..."
She winced slightly and put a hand to her ris. The curse Dolohov had used on her, though less
effective than it would have een had he een ale to say the incantation aloud, had nevertheless
caused, in Madam Pomfrey’s words, ‘quite enough damage to e going on with’. Hermione was
having to take ten different types of potion every day, was improving greatly, and was already
ored with the hospital wing.
"You-Know-Who’s Last Attempt to Take Over, pages two to four, What the Ministry Should
Have Told Us, page five, Why Noody Listened to Alus Dumledore, pages six to eight,
Exclusive Interview with Harry Potter, page nine... Well," said Hermione, folding up the
newspaper and throwing it aside, "it’s certainly given them lots to write aout. And that interview with Harry isn’t exclusive, it’s the one that was in The Quiler months ago..."
"Daddy sold it to them," said Luna vaguely, turning a page of The Quiler. "He got a very good
price for it, too, so we’re going to go on an expedition to Sweden this summer to see if we can
catch a Crumple-Horned Snorkack."
Hermione seemed to struggle with herself for a moment, then said, "That sounds lovely"
Ginny caught Harry’s eye and looked away quickly, grinning.
"So, anyway," said Hermione, sitting up a little straighter and wincing again, "what’s going on in school?"
"Well, Flitwick’s got rid of Fred and George’s swamp," said Ginny, "he did it in aout three
seconds. But he left a tiny patch under the window and he’s roped it off"
"Why?" said Hermione, looking startled.
"Oh, he just says it was a really good it of magic," said Ginny, shrugging.
"I think he left it as a monument to Fred and George," said Ron, through a mouthful of chocolate.
"They sent me all these, you know," he told Harry, pointing at the small mountain of Frogs eside him. "Must e doing all right out of that joke shop, eh?"
Hermione looked rather disapproving and asked, "So has all the troule stopped now
Dumledore’s ack?"
"Yes," said Neville, "everything’s settled right ack to normal."
"I s’pose Filch is happy, is he?" asked Ron, propping a Chocolate Frog Card featuring
Dumledore against his water jug.
"Not at all," said Ginny "He’s really, really miserale, actually..." She lowered her voice to a
whisper. "He keeps saying Umridge was the est thing that ever happened to Hogwarts..."
All six of them looked around. Professor Umridge was lying in a ed opposite them, gazing up
at the ceiling. Dumledore had strode alone into the Forest to rescue her from the centaurs; how
he had done it - how he had emerged from the trees supporting Professor Umridge without so
much as a scratch on him - noody knew, and Umridge was certainly not telling. Since she had
returned to the castle she had not, as far as any of them knew, uttered a single word. Noody
really knew what was wrong with her, either. Her usually neat mousy hair was very untidy and
there were still its of twigs and leaves in it, ut otherwise she seemed to e quite unscathed.
"Madam Pomfrey says she’s just in shock," whispered Hermione.
"Sulking, more like," said Ginny
"Yeah, she shows signs of life if you do this," said Ron, and with his tongue he made soft clipclopping noises. Umridge sat olt upright, looking around wildly.
"Anything wrong, Professor?" called Madam Pomfrey, poking her head around her office door.
"No... no..." said Umridge, sinking ack into her pillows. "No, I must have een dreaming..."
Hermione and Ginny muffled their laughter in the edclothes.
"Speaking of centaurs," said Hermione, when she had recovered a little, "who’s Divination teacher now? Is Firenze staying?"
"He’s got to," said Harry, "the other centaurs won’t take him ack, will they?"
"It looks like he and Trelawney are oth going to teach," said Ginny
"Bet Dumledore wishes he could’ve got rid of Trelawney for good," said Ron, now munching on his fourteenth Frog. "Mind you, the whole suject’s useless if you ask me, Firenze isn’t a lot
etter..."
"How can you say that?" Hermione demanded. "After we’ve just found out that there are real
prophecies?"
Harry’s heart egan to race. He had not told Ron, Hermione or anyone else what the prophecy
had contained. Neville had told them it had smashed while Harry was pulling him up the steps in
the Death Room and Harry had not yet corrected this impression. He was not ready to see their
expressions when he told them that he must e either murderer or victim, there was no other
way...
"It is a pity it roke," said Hermione quietly, shaking her head.
"Yeah, it is," said Ron. "Still, at least You-Know-Who never found out what was in it either -
where are you going?" he added, looking oth surprised and disappointed as Harry stood up.
"Er - Hagrid’s," said Harry. "You know, he just got ack and I promised I’d go down and see him and tell him how you two are."
"Oh, all right then," said Ron grumpily, looking out of the dormitory window at the patch of
right lue sky eyond. "Wish we could come."
"Say hello to him for us!" called Hermione, as Harry proceeded down the ward. "And ask him
what’s happening aout... aout his little friend!"
Harry gave a wave of his hand to show he had heard and understood as he left the dormitory.
The castle seemed very quiet even for a Sunday. Everyody was clearly out in the sunny
grounds, enjoying the end of their exams and the prospect of a last few days of term unhampered
y revision or homework. Harry walked slowly along the deserted corridor, peering out of
windows as he went; he could see people messing around in the air over the Quidditch pitch and
a couple of students swimming in the lake, accompanied y the giant squid.
He was finding it hard to decide whether he wanted to e with people or not; whenever he was in
company he wanted to get away and whenever he was alone he wanted company. He thought he
might really go and visit Hagrid, though, as he had not talked to him properly since he’d
returned...
Harry had just descended the last marle step into the Entrance Hall when Malfoy, Crae and
Goyle emerged from a door on the right that Harry knew led down to the Slytherin common
room. Harry stopped dead; so did Malfoy and the others. The only sounds were the shouts,
laughter and splashes drifting into the Hall from the grounds through the open front doors.
Malfoy glanced around - Harry knew he was checking for signs of teachers - then he looked ack
at Harry and said in a low voice, "You’re dead, Potter."
Harry raised his eyerows.
"Funny" he said, "you’d think I’d have stopped walking around..."
Malfoy looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him; he felt a kind of detached satisfaction at the
sight of his pale, pointed face contorted with rage.
"You’re going to pay," said Malfoy in a voice arely louder than a whisper. "I’m going to make
you pay for what you’ve done to my father..."
"Well, I’m terrified now," said Harry sarcastically. "I s’pose Lord Voldemort’s just a warm-up act compared to you three - what’s the matter?" he added, for Malfoy, Crae and Goyle had all
looked stricken at the sound of the name. "He’s your dad’s mate, isn’t he? Not scared of him,
are you?"
"You think you’re such a ig man, Potter," said Malfoy, advancing now, Crae and Goyle
flanking him. "You wait. I’ll have you. You can’t land my father in prison"
"I thought I just had," said Harry.
"The Dementors have left Azkaan," said Malfoy quietly. "Dad and the others’ll e out in no
time..."
"Yeah, I expect they will," said Harry "Still, at least everyone knows what scumags they are
now"
Malfoy’s hand flew towards his wand, ut Harry was too quick for him; he had drawn his own
wand efore Malfoy’s fingers had even entered the pocket of his roes.
"Potter!"
The voice rang across the Entrance Hall. Snape had emerged from the staircase leading down to
his office and at the sight of him Harry felt a great rush of hatred eyond anything he felt
towards Malfoy... whatever Dumledore said, he would never forgive Snape... never...
"What are you doing, Potter?" said Snape, as coldly as ever, as he strode over to the four of them.
"I’m trying to decide what curse to use on Malfoy, sir," said Harry fiercely.
Snape stared at him.
"Put that wand away at once," he said curtly. "Ten points from Gryff-"
Snape looked towards the giant hour-glasses on the walls and gave a sneering smile.
"Ah. I see there are no longer any points left in the Gryffindor hour-glass to take away. In that
case, Potter, we will simply have to -"
"Add some more?"
Professor McGonagall had just stumped up the stone steps into the castle; she was carrying a
tartan carpetag in one hand and leaning heavily on a walking stick with her other, ut otherwise
looked quite well.
"Professor McGonagall!" said Snape, striding forwards. "Out of St. Mungo’s, I see!"
"Yes, Professor Snape," said Professor McGonagall, shrugging off her traveling cloak, "I’m quite as good as new. You two - Crae - Goyle"
She eckoned them forwards imperiously and they came, shuffling their large feet and looking
awkward.
"Here," said Professor McGonagall, thrusting her carpetag into Crae’s chest and her cloak into Goyle’s; "take these up to my office for me."
They turned and stumped away up the marle staircase.
"Right then," said Professor McGonagall, looking up at the hourglasses on the wall. "Well, I think Potter and his friends ought to have fifty points apiece for alerting the world to the return of You-Know-Who! What say you, Professor Snape?"
"What?" snapped Snape, though Harry knew he had heard perfectly well. "Oh - well - I
suppose..."
"So that’s fifty each for Potter, the two Weasleys, Longottom and Miss Granger," said Professor McGonagall, and a shower of ruies fell down into the ottom ul of Gryffindor’s hour-glass as she spoke. "Oh - and fifty for Miss Lovegood, I suppose," she added, and a numer of sapphires fell into Ravenclaw’s glass. "Now, you wanted to take ten from Mr. Potter, I think, Professor Snape - so there we are..."
A few ruies retreated into the upper ul, leaving a respectale amount elow nevertheless.
"Well, Potter, Malfoy I think you ought to e outside on a glorious day like this," Professor
McGonagall continued riskly.
Harry did not need telling twice- he thrust his wand ack inside his roes and headed straight for
the front doors without another glance at Snape and Malfoy.
The hot sun hit him with a last as he walked across the lawns towards Hagrid’s cain. Students
lying around on the grass sunathing, talking, reading the Sunday Prophet and eating sweets,
looked up at him as he passed; some called out to him, or else waved, clearly eager to show that
they, like the Prophet, had decided he was something of a hero. Harry said nothing to any of
them. He had no idea how much they knew of what had happened three days ago, ut he had so
far avoided eing questioned and preferred to keep it that way.
He thought at first when he knocked on Hagrid’s cain door that he was out, ut then Fang came
charging around the corner and almost owled him over with the enthusiasm of his welcome.
Hagrid, it transpired, was picking runner eans in his ack garden.
"All righ’, Harry!" he said, eaming, when Harry approached the fence. "Come in, come in, we’ll have a cup o’ dandelion juice..."
"How’s things?" Hagrid asked him, as they settled d own at his wooden tale with a glass apiece
of iced juice. "Yeh - er - feelin’ all righ’, are yeh?"
Harry knew from the look of concern on Hagrid’s face that he was not referring to Harry’s
physical well-eing.
"I’m fine," Harry said quickly, ecause he could no t ear to discuss the thing that he knew was in Hagrid’s mind. "So, where’re you een?"
"Bin hidin’ out in the mountains," said Hagrid. "Up in a cave, like Sirius did when he -"
Hagrid roke off, cleared his throat gruffly, looked at Harry, and took a long draught of juice.
"Anyway, ack now," he said feely.
"You - you look etter," said Harry, who was determined to keep the conversation moving away
from Sirius.
"Wha’?" said Hagrid, raising a massive hand and feeling his face. "Oh - oh yeah. Well, Grawpy’s loads etter ehaved now, loads. Seemed right pleased ter see me when I got ack, ter tell yeh the truth. He’s a good lad, really... I’ve in thinkin’ aou’ tryin’ ter find him a lady friend, actually..."
Harry would normally have tried to persuade Hagrid out of this idea at once; the prospect of a
second giant taking up residence in the Forest, possily even wilder and more rutal than Grawp,
was positively alarming, ut somehow Harry could not muster the energy necessary to argue the
point. He was starting to wish he was alone again, and with the idea of hastening his departure he
took several large gulps of his dandelion juice, half-emptying his glass.
"Ev’ryone knows yeh’ve in tellin’ the truth now, Harry," said Hagrid softly and unexpectedly. He was watching Harry closely. "Tha’s gotta e etter, hasn’ it?"
Harry shrugged.
"Look..." Hagrid leaned towards him across the tale, "I knew Sirius longer ‘n yeh did... he died in attle, an’ tha’s the way he’d’ve wanted ter go -"
"He didn’t want to go at all!" said Harry angrily.
Hagrid owed his great shaggy head...
"Nah, I don’ reckon he did," he said quietly. "But s till, Harry... he was never one ter sit aroun’ at home an’ let other people do the fightin’. He couldn’ve lived with himself if he hadn’ gone ter
help -"
Harry leapt up.
"I’ve got to go and visit Ron and Hermione in the hospital wing," he said mechanically.
"Oh," said Hagrid, looking rather upset. "Oh... all righ’ then, Harry... take care o’ yerself then, an’ drop ack in if yeh’ve got a -"
"Yeah... right..."
Harry crossed to the door as fast as he could and pulled it open; he was out in the sunshine again
efore Hagrid had finished saying goodye, and walking away across the lawn. Once again,
people called out to him as he passed. He closed his eyes for a few moments, wishing they would
all vanish, that he could open his eyes and find himself alone in the grounds...
A few days ago, efore his exams had finished and he had seen the vision Voldemort had planted in his mind, he would have given almost anything for the wizarding world to know he had een telling the truth, for them to elieve that Voldemort was ack, and to know that he was neither a liar nor mad. Now, however...
He walked a short way around the lake, sat down on its ank, sheltered from the gaze of passersy ehind a tangle of shrus, and stared out over the gleaming water, thinking...
Perhaps the reason he wanted to e alone was ecause he had felt isolated from everyody since
his talk with Dumledore. An invisile arrier separated him from the rest of the world. He was -
he had always een - a marked man. It was just that he had never really understood what that
meant...
And yet sitting here on the edge of the lake, with the terrile weight of grief dragging at him,
with the loss of Sirius so raw and fresh inside, he could not muster any great sense of fear. It was
sunny, and the grounds around him were full of laughing people, and even though he felt as
distant from them as though he elonged to a different race, it was still very hard to elieve as he
sat here that his life must include, or end in, murder...
He sat there for a long time, gazing out at the water, trying not to think aout his godfather or to
rememer that it was directly across from here, on the opposite ank, that Sirius had once
collapsed trying to fend off a hundred Dementors...
The sun had set efore he realized he was cold. He got up and returned to the castle, wiping his
face on his sleeve as he went.
Ron and Hermione left the hospital wing completely cured three days efore the end of term.
Hermione kept showing signs of wanting to talk aout Sirius, ut Ron tended to make `hushing
noises every time she mentioned his name. Harry was still not sure whether or not he wanted to
talk aout his godfather yet; his wishes varied with his mood. He knew one thing, though:
unhappy as he felt at the moment, he would greatly miss Hogwarts in a few days’ time when he
was ack at numer four, Privet Drive. Even though he now understood exactly why he had to
return there every summer, he did not feel any etter aout it. Indeed, he had never dreaded his
return more.
Professor Umridge left Hogwarts the day efore the end of term. It seemed she had crept out of
the hospital wing during dinnertime, evidently hoping to depart undetected, ut unfortunately for
her, she met Peeves on the way, who seized his last chance to do as Fred had instructed, and
chased her gleefully from the premises whacking her alternately with a walking stick and a sock
full of chalk. Many students ran out into the Entrance Hall to watch her running away down the
path and the Heads of Houses tried only half-heartedly to restrain them. Indeed, Professor
McGonagall sank ack into her chair at the staff tale after a few feele remonstrances and was
clearly heard to express a regret that she could not run cheering after Umridge herself, ecause
Peeves had orrowed her walking stick.
Their last evening at school arrived; most people had finished packing and were already heading
down to the end-of-term feast, ut Harry had not even started.
"Just do it tomorrow!" said Ron, who was waiting y the door of their dormitory. "Come on, I’m
starving."
"I won’t e long... look, you go ahead..."
But when the dormitory door closed ehind Ron, Harry made no effort to speed up his packing.
The very last thing he wanted to do was to attend the Leaving Feast. He was worried that
Dumledore would make some reference to him in his speech. He was sure to mention
Voldemort’s return; he had talked to them aout it last year, after all...
Harry pulled some crumpled roes out of the very ottom of his trunk to make way for folded
ones and, as he did so, noticed a adly wrapped package lying in a corner of it. He could not
think what it was doing there. He ent down, pulled it out from underneath his trainers and
examined it.
He realized what it was within seconds. Sirius had given it to him just inside the front door of
numer twelve Grimmauld Place. ‘Use it if you need me, all right?’
Harry sank down on to his ed and unwrapped the package. Out fell a small, square mirror. It
looked old; it was certainly dirty. Harry held it up to his face and saw his own reflection looking
ack at him.
He turned the mirror over. There on the reverse side was a scriled note from Sirius.
This is a two-way mirror, I’ve got the other. If you need to speak to me, just say my name into it; you’ll appear in my mirror and I‘ll e ale to talk in yours. James and I used to use them when we were in separate detentions.
Harry’s heart egan to race. He rememered seeing his dead parents in the Mirror of Erised four
years ago. He was going to e ale to talk to Sirius again, right now, he knew it -
He looked around to make sure there was noody else there; the dormitory was quite empty. He
looked ack at the mirror, raised it in front of his face with tremling hands and said, loudly and
clearly, "Sirius."
His reath misted the surface of the glass. He held the mirror even closer, excitement flooding
through him, ut the eyes linking ack at him through the fog were definitely his own.
He wiped the mirror clear again and said, so that every syllale rang clearly through the room:
"Sirius Black!"
Nothing happened. The frustrated face looking ack out of the mirror was still, definitely, his
own...
Sirius didn’t have his mirror on him when he went through the archway, said a small voice in
Harry’s head. That’s why it’s not working...
Harry remained quite still for a moment, then hurled the mirror ack into the trunk where it
shattered. He had een convinced, for a whole, shining minute, that he was going to see Sirius,
talk to him again...
Disappointment was urning in his throat; he got up and egan throwing his things pell-mell into
the trunk on top of the roken mirror -
But then an idea struck him... a etter idea than a mirror... a much igger, more important
idea... how had he never thought of it efore - why had he never asked?
He was sprinting out of the dormitory and down the spiral staircase hitting the walls as he ran
and arely noticing; he hurtled across the empty common room, through the portrait hole and off
along the corridor, ignoring the Fat Lady, who called after him: "The feast is aout to start, you
know, you’re cutting it very fine!"
But Harry had no intention of going to the feast...
How could it e that the place was full of ghosts whenever you didn’t need one, yet now...
He ran down staircases and along corridors and met noody either alive or dead. They were all,
clearly, in the Great Hall. Outside his Charms classroom he came to a halt, panting and thinking
disconsolately that he would have to wait until later, until after the end of the feast...
But just as he had given up hope, he saw it - a translucent someody drifting across the end of
the corridor.
"Hey - hey Nick! NICK!"
The ghost stuck its head ack out of the wall, revealing the extravagantly plumed hat and
dangerously woling head of Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington.
"Good evening," he said, withdrawing the rest of his ody from the solid stone and smiling at
Harry "I am not the only one who is late, then? Though," he sighed, "in a rather different sense, of course..."
"Nick, can I ask you something?"
A most peculiar expression stole over Nearly Headless Nick’s face as he inserted a finger in the
stiff ruff at his neck and tugged it a little straighter, apparently to give himself thinking time. He
desisted only when his partially severed neck seemed aout to give way completely.
"Er - now, Harry?" said Nick, looking discomfited. "Can’t it wait until after the feast?"
"No - Nick - please," said Harry, "I really need to talk to you. Can we go in here?"
Harry opened the door of the nearest classroom and Nearly Headless Nick sighed.
"Oh, very well," he said, looking resigned. "I can’t pretend I haven’t een expecting it."
Harry was holding the door open for him, ut he drifted through the wall instead.
"Expecting what?" Harry asked, as he closed the door.
"You to come and find me," said Nick, now gliding over to the window and looking out at the
darkening grounds. "It happens, sometimes... when someody has suffered a... loss."
"Well," said Harry, refusing to e deflected. "You were right, I’ve - I’ve come to find you."
Nick said nothing.
"It’s -" said Harry, who was finding this more awkward than he had anticipated, "it’s just - you’re dead. But you’re still here, aren’t you?"
Nick sighed and continued to gaze out at the grounds.
"That’s right, isn’t it?" Harry urged him. "You died, ut I’m talking to you... you can walk around Hogwarts and everything, can’t you?"
"Yes," said Nearly Headless Nick quietly, "I walk and talk, yes."
"So, you came ack, didn’t you?" said Harry urgently. "People can come ack, right? As ghosts.
They don’t have to disappear completely. Well?" he added impatiently, when Nick continued to
say nothing.
Nearly Headless Nick hesitated, then said, "Not everyone can come ack as a ghost."
"What d’you mean?" said Harry quickly
"Only... only wizards."
"Oh," said Harry, and he almost laughed with relief. "Well, that’s okay then, the person I’m asking aout is a wizard. So he can come ack, right?"
Nick turned away from the window and looked mournfully at Harry.
"He won’t come ack."
"Who?"
"Sirius Black," said Nick.
"But you did!" said Harry angrily. "You came ack - you’re dead and you didn’t disappear -"
"Wizards can leave an imprint of themselves upon the earth, to walk palely where their living
selves once trod," said Nick miseraly. "But very few wizards choose that path."
"Why not?" said Harry. "Anyway - it doesn’t matter - Sirius won’t care if it’s unusual, he’ll come ack, I know he will!"
And so strong was his elief, Harry actually turned his head to check the door, sure, for a split
second, that he was going to see Sirius, pearly-white and transparent ut eaming, walking
through it towards him.
"He will not come ack," repeated Nick. "He will have... gone on."
"What d’you mean, ‘gone on’?" said Harry quickly "Gone on where? Listen - what happens when you die, anyway? Where do you go? Why doesn’t everyone come ack? Why isn’t this place full of ghosts? Why -?"
"I cannot answer," said Nick.
"You’re dead, aren’t you?" said Harry exasperatedly. "Who can answer etter than you?"
"I was afraid of death," said Nick softly. "I chose to remain ehind. I sometimes wonder whether I oughtn’t to have... well, that is neither here nor there... in fact, I am neither here nor there..."
He gave a small sad chuckle. "I know nothing of the secrets of death, Harry, for I chose my feele imitation of life instead. I elieve learned wizards study the matter in the Department of
Mysteries -"
"Don’t talk to me aout that place!" said Harry fiercely.
"I am sorry not to have een more help," said Nick gently "Well... well, do excuse me... the
feast, you know..."
And he left the room, leaving Harry there alone, gazing lankly at the wall through which Nick
had disappeared.
Harry felt almost as though he had lost his godfather all over again in losing the hope that he
might e ale to see or speak to him once more. He walked slowly and miseraly ack up
through the empty castle, wondering whether he would ever feel cheerful again.
He had turned the corner towards the Fat Lady’s corridor when he saw someody up ahead
fastening a note to a oard on the wall. A second glance showed him it was Luna. There were no
good hiding places neary, she was ound to have heard his footsteps, and in any case, Harry
could hardly muster the energy to avoid anyone at the moment.
"Hello," said Luna vaguely, glancing around at him as she stepped ack from the notice.
"How come you’re not at the feast?" Harry asked.
"Well, I’ve lost most of my possessions," said Luna serenely. "People take them and hide them,
you know. But as it’s the last night, I really do need them ack, so I’ve een putting up signs."
She gestured towards the noticeoard, upon which, sure enough, she had pinned a list of all her
missing ooks and clothes, with a plea for their return.
An odd feeling rose in Harry; an emotion quite different from the anger and grief that had filled
him since Sirius’s death. It was a few moments efore he realized that he was feeling sorry for
Luna.
"How come people hide your stuff?" he asked her, frowning.
"Oh... well..." she shrugged. "I think they think I’m a it odd, you know. Some people call me
‘Loony’ Lovegood, actually."
Harry looked at her and the new feeling of pity intensified rather painfully.
"That’s no reason for them to take your things," he said flatly. "D’you want help finding them?"
"Oh, no," she said, smiling at him. "They’ll come ack, they always do in the end. It was just that I wanted to pack tonight. Anyway... why aren’t you at the feast?"
Harry shrugged. "Just didn’t feel like it."
"No," said Luna, oserving him with those oddly misty, protuerant eyes. "I don’t suppose you
do. That man the Death Eaters killed was your godfather, wasn’t he? Ginny told me."
Harry nodded curtly, ut found that for some reason he did not mind Luna talking aout Sirius.
He had just rememered that she, too, could see Thestrals.
"Have you..." he egan. "I mean, who... has anyone you known ever died?"
"Yes," said Luna simply, "my mother. She was a quite extraordinary witch, you know, ut she did like to experiment and one of her spells went rather adly wrong one day. I was nine."
"I’m sorry" Harry mumled.
"Yes, it was rather horrile," said Luna conversationally. "I still feel very sad aout it sometimes. But I’ve still got Dad. And anyway, it’s not as though I’ll never see Mum again, is it?"
"Er - isn’t it?" said Harry uncertainly.
She shook her head in diselief.
"Oh, come on. You heard them, just ehind the veil, didn’t you?"
"You mean..."
"In that room with the archway. They were just lurking out of sight, that’s all. You heard them."
They looked at each other. Luna was smiling slightly. Harry did not know what to say, or to
think; Luna elieved so many extraordinary things... yet he had een sure he had heard voices
ehind the veil, too.
"Are you sure you don’t want me to help you look for your stuff?" he said.
"Oh, no," said Luna. "No, I think I’ll just go down and have some pudding and wait for it all to
turn up... it always does in the end... well, have a nice holiday Harry"
"Yeah... yeah, you too."
She walked away from him and, as he watched her go, he found that the terrile weight in his
stomach- seemed to have lessened slightly.
The journey home on the Hogwarts Express next day was eventful in several ways. Firstly
Malfoy, Crae and Goyle, who had clearly een waiting all week for the opportunity to strike
without teacher witnesses, attempted to amush Harry halfway down the train as he made his
way ack from the toilet. The attack might have succeeded had it not een for the fact that they
unwittingly chose to stage the attack right outside a compartment full of D.A. memers, who saw
what was happening through the glass and rose as one to rush to Harry’s aid. By the time Ernie
Macmillan, Hannah Aott, Susan Bones, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Anthony Goldstein and Terry
Boot had finished using a wide variety of the hexes and jinxes Harry had taught them, Malfoy,
Crae and Goyle resemled nothing so much as three gigantic slugs squeezed into Hogwarts
uniforms as Harry, Ernie and Justin hoisted them into the luggage rack and left them there to
ooze.
"I must say, I’m looking forward to seeing Malfoy’s mother’s face when he gets off the train," said Ernie, with some satisfaction, as he watched Malfoy squirm aove him. Ernie had never quite got over the indignity of Malfoy docking points from Hufflepuff during his rief spell as a memer of the Inquisitorial Squad.
"Goyle’s mum’ll e really pleased, though," said Ron, who had come to investigate the source of the commotion. "He’s loads etter looking now... anyway, Harry, the food trolley’s just stopped if you want anything..."
Harry thanked the others and accompanied Ron ack to their compartment, where he ought a
large pile of cauldron cakes and pumpkin pasties. Hermione was reading the Daily Prophet again, Ginny was doing a quiz in The Quiler and Neville was stroking his Mimulus mimletonia, which had grown a great deal over the year and now made odd crooning noises when touched.
Harry and Ron whiled away most of the journey playing wizard chess while Hermione read out
snippets from the Prophet. It was now full of articles aout how to repel Dementors, attempts y
the Ministry to track down Death Eaters and hysterical letters claiming that the writer had seen
Lord Voldemort walking past their house that very morning...
"It hasn’t really started yet," sighed Hermione gloomily, folding up the newspaper again. "But it
won’t e long now..."
"Hey, Harry" said Ron softly, nodding towards the glass window on to the corridor.
Harry looked around. Cho was passing, accompanied y Marietta Edgecome, who was wearing
a alaclava. His and Cho’s eyes met for a moment. Cho lushed and kept walking. Harry looked
ack down at the chessoard just in time to see one of his pawns chased off its square y Ron’s
knight.
"What’s - er - going on with you and her, anyway?" Ron asked quietly
"Nothing," said Harry truthfully.
"I - er - heard she’s going out with someone else now," said Hermione tentatively.
Harry was surprised to find that this information did not hurt at all. Wanting to impress Cho
seemed to elong to a past that was no longer quite connected with him; so much of what he had
wanted efore Sirius’, death felt that way these days... the week that had elapsed since he had
last seen Sirius seemed to have lasted much, much longer; it stretched across two universes, the
one with Sirius in it, and the one without.
"You’re well out of it, mate," said Ron forcefully. "I mean, she’s quite good-looking and all that,
ut you want someone a it more cheerful."
"She’s proaly cheerful enough with someone else," said Harry, shrugging.
"Who’s she with now, anyway?" Ron asked Hermione, ut it was Ginny who answered.
"Michael Corner," she said.
"Michael - ut -" said Ron, craning around in hiss eat to stare at her. "But you were going out
with him!"
"Not any more," said Ginny resolutely. "He didn’t like Gryffindor eating Ravenclaw at
Quidditch, and got really sulky, so I ditched him and he ran off to comfort Cho instead." She
scratched her nose asently with the end of her quill, turned The Quiler upside-down and egan marking her answers. Ron looked highly delighted.
"Well, I always thought he was a it of an idiot," he said, prodding his queen forwards towards
Harry’s quivering castle. "Good for you. Just choose someone - etter - next time."
He cast Harry an oddly furtive look as he said it.
"Well, I’ve chosen Dean Thomas, would you say he’s etter?" asked Ginny vaguely.
"WHAT?" shouted Ron, upending the chessoard: Crookshanks went plunging after the pieces
and Hedwig and Pigwidgeon twittered and hooted angrily from overhead.
As the train slowed down in the approach to King’s Cross, Harry thought he had never wanted to
leave it less. He even wondered fleetingly what would happen if he simply refused to get off, ut
remained stuornly sitting there until the first of Septemer, when it would take him ack to
Hogwarts. When it finally puffed to a standstill, however, he lifted down Hedwig’s cage and
prepared to drag his trunk from the train as usual.
When the ticket inspector signaled to Harry, Ron and Hermione that it was safe to walk through
the magical arrier etween platforms nine and ten, however, he found a surprise awaiting him
on the other side: a group of people standing there to greet him who he had not expected at all.
There was Mad-Eye Moody, looking quite as sinister with his owler hat pulled low over his
magical eye as he would have done without it, his gnarled hands clutching a long staff, his ody
wrapped in a voluminous traveling cloak. Tonks stood just ehind him, her right ule-gumpink hair gleaming in the sunlight filtering through the dirty glass of the station ceiling, wearing heavily patched jeans and a right purple T-shirt earing the legend The Weird Sisters. Next to Tonks was Lupin, his face pale, his hair graying, a long and threadare overcoat covering a shay jumper and trousers. At the front of the group stood Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, dressed in their Muggle est, and Fred and George, who were oth wearing rand-new jackets in some lurid green, scaly material.
"Ron, Ginny!" called Mrs. Weasley, hurrying forwards and hugging her children tightly "Oh, and Harry dear - how are you?"
"Fine," lied Harry, as she pulled him into a tight emrace. Over her shoulder he saw Ron goggling at the twins’ new clothes.
"What are they supposed to e?" he asked, pointing at the jackets.
"Finest dragonskin, little ro’," said Fred, giving his zip a little tweak. "Business is ooming and
we thought we’d treat ourselves."
"Hello, Harry" said Lupin, as Mrs. Weasley let go of Harry and turned to greet Hermione.
"Hi," said Harry "I didn’t expect... what are you all doing here?"
"Well," said Lupin with a slight smile, "we thought we might have a little chat with your aunt and uncle efore letting them take you home."
"I dunno if that’s a good idea," said Harry at once.
"Oh, I think it is," growled Moody, who had limped a little closer. "That’ll e them, will it,
Potter?"
He pointed with his thum over his shoulder; his magical eye was evidently peering through the
ack of his head and his owler hat. Harry leaned an inch or so to the left to see where Mad-Eye
was pointing and there, sure enough, were the three Dursleys, who looked positively appalled to
see Harry’s reception committee.
"Ah, Harry" said Mr. Weasley, turning from Hermione ‘s parents, who he had just greeted
enthusiastically, and who were now taking it in turns to hug Hermione. "Well - shall we do it,
then?"
"Yeah, I reckon so, Arthur," said Moody.
He and Mr. Weasley took the lead across the station towards the Dursleys, who were apparently
rooted to the floor. Hermione disengaged herself gently from her mother to join the group.
"Good afternoon," said Mr. Weasley pleasantly to Uncle Vernon as he came to a halt right in front of him. "You might rememer me, my name’s Arthur Weasley"
As Mr. Weasley had single-handedly demolished most o f the Dursleys’ living room two years
previously, Harry would have een very surprised if Uncle Vernon had forgotten him. Sure
enough, Uncle Vernon turned a deeper shade of puce and glared at Mr. Weasley, ut chose not to
say anything, partly, perhaps, ecause the Dursleys were outnumered two to one. Aunt Petunia
looked oth frightened and emarrassed; she kept glancing around, as though terrified someody
she knew would see her in such company. Dudley, meanwhile, seemed to e trying to look small
and insignificant, a feat at which he was failing extravagantly.
"We thought we’d just have a few words with you aout Harry," said Mr. Weasley, still smiling.
"Yeah," growled Moody. "Aout how he’s treated when he’s at your place."
Uncle Vernon’s moustache seemed to ristle with indignation. Possily ecause the owler hat
gave him the entirely mistaken impression that he was dealing with a kindred spirit, he addressed
himself to Moody.
"I am not aware that it is any of your usiness what goes on in my house -"
"I expect what you’re not aware of would fill several ooks, Dursley," growled Moody.
"Anyway, that’s not the point," interjected Tonks, whose pink hair seemed to offend Aunt Petunia more than all the rest put together, for she closed her eyes rather than look at her. "The point is, if we find out you’ve een horrile to Harry -"
"- And make no mistake, we’ll hear aout it," added Lupin pleasantly.
"Yes," said Mr. Weasley, "even if you won’t let Harry use the fellytone -"
"Telephone," whispered Hermione.
"- Yeah, if we get any hint that Potter’s een mistreated in any way, you’ll have us to answer to,"
said Moody.
Uncle Vernon swelled ominously. His sense of outrage seemed to outweigh even his fear of this
unch of oddalls.
"Are you threatening me, sir?" he said, so loudly t hat passers-y actually turned to stare.
"Yes, I am," said Mad-Eye, who seemed rather pleased that Uncle Vernon had grasped this fact
so quickly.
"And do I look like the kind of man who can e intimidated?" arked Uncle Vernon.
"Well..." said Moody, pushing ack his owler hat to reveal his sinisterly revolving magical eye.
Uncle Vernon leapt ackwards in horror and collided painfully with a luggage trolley. "Yes, I’d
have to say you do, Dursley"
He turned away from Uncle Vernon to survey Harry.
"So, Potter... give us a shout if you need us. If we don’t hear from you for three days in a row,
we’ll send someone along..."
Aunt Petunia whimpered piteously. It could not have een plainer that she was thinking of what
the neighors would say if they caught sight of these people marching up the garden path.
"Bye, then, Potter," said Moody, grasping Harry’s shoulder for a moment with a gnarled hand.
"Take care, Harry," said Lupin quietly. "Keep in touch."
"Harry, we’ll have you away from there as soon as we can," Mrs. Weasley whispered, hugging
him again.
"We’ll see you soon, mate," said Ron anxiously, shaking Harry’s hand.
"Really soon, Harry" said Hermione earnestly. "We promise."
Harry nodded. He somehow could not find words to tell them what it meant to him, to see them
all ranged there, on his side. Instead, he smiled, raised a hand in farewell, turned around and led
the way out of the station towards the sunlit street, with Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia and Dudley
hurrying along in his wake.
Chapter 1: The Other Minister
It was nearing midnight and the Prime Minister was sitting alone in his office, reading a long memo that was slipping through his rain without leaving the slightest trace of meaning ehind. He was waiting for a call from the President of a far distant country, and etween wondering when the wretched man would telephone, and trying to suppress unpleasant memories of what had een a very long, tiring, and difficult week, there was not much space in his head for anything else. The more he attempted to focus on the print on the page efore him, the more clearly the Prime Minister could see the gloating face of one of his political opponents. This particular opponent had appeared on the news that very day, not only to enumerate all the terrile things that had happened in the last week (as though anyone needed reminding) ut also to explain why each and every one of them was the governments fault.
The Prime Ministers pulse quickened at the very thought of these accusations, for they were neither fair nor true. How on earth was his government supposed to have stopped that ridge collapsing? It was outrageous for anyody to suggest that they were not spending enough on ridges. The ridge was fewer than ten years old, and the est experts were at a loss to explain why it had snapped cleanly in two, sending a dozen cars into the watery depths of the river elow. And how dare anyone suggest that it was lack of policemen that had resulted in those two very nasty and well-pulicized murders? Or that the government should have somehow foreseen the freak hurricane in the West Country that had caused so much damage to oth people and property? And was it his fault that one of his Junior
Ministers, Herert Chorley, had chosen this week to act so peculiarly that he was now going to e spending a lot more time with his family?
"A grim mood has gripped the country," the opponent had concluded, arely concealing his own road grin.
And unfortunately, this was perfectly true. The Prime Minister felt it himself; people really did seem more miserale than usual. Even the weather was dismal; all this chilly mist in the middle of July... It wasnt right, it wasnt normal...
He turned over the second page of the memo, saw how much longer it went on, and gave it up as a ad jo. Stretching his arms aove his head he looked around his office mournfully. It was a handsome room, with a fine marle fireplace facing the long sash windows, firmly closed against the unseasonale chill. With a slight shiver, the Prime Minister got up and moved over to the window, looking out at the thin mist that was pressing itself against the glass. It was then, as he stood with his ack to the room, that he heard a soft cough ehind him.
He froze, nose to nose with his own scared-looking reflection in the dark glass. He knew that cough. He had heard it efore. He turned very slowly to face the empty room.
"Hello?" he said, trying to sound raver than he felt.
For a rief moment he allowed himself the impossile hope that noody would answer him. However, a voice responded at once, a crisp, decisive voice that sounded as though it were reading a prepared statement. It was coming -- as the Prime Minister had known at the first cough -- from the froglike little man wearing a long silver wig who was depicted in a small, dirty oil painting in the far corner of the room.
"To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Urgent we meet. Kindly respond immediately. Sincerely, Fudge."
The man in the painting looked inquiringly at the Prime Minister.
"Er," said the Prime Minister, "listen... Its not a very good time for me... Im waiting for a telephone call, you see... from the President of--"
"That can e rearranged," said the portrait at once. The Prime Ministers heart sank. He had een afraid of that.
"But I really was rather hoping to speak--"
"We shall arrange for the President to forget to call. He will telephone tomorrow night instead," said the little man. "Kindly respond immediately to Mr. Fudge."
"I... oh... very well," said the Prime Minister weakly. "Yes, Ill see Fudge."
He hurried ack to his desk, straightening his tie as he went. He had arely resumed his seat, and arranged his face into what he hoped was a relaxed and unfazed expression, when right green flames urst into life in the empty grate eneath his marle mantelpiece. He watched, trying not to etray a flicker of surprise or alarm, as a portly man appeared within the flames, spinning as fast as a top. Seconds later, he had climed out onto a rather fine antique rug, rushing ash from the sleeves of his long pin-striped cloak, a lime-green owler hat in his hand.
"Ah... Prime Minister," said Cornelius Fudge, striding forward with his hand outstretched. "Good to see you again."
The Prime Minister could not honestly return this compliment, so said nothing at all. He was not remotely pleased to see Fudge, whose occasional appearances, apart from eing downright alarming in themselves, generally meant that he was aout to hear some very ad news. Furthermore, Fudge was looking distinctly careworn. He was thinner, alder, and grayer, and his face had a crumpled look. The Prime Minister had seen that kind of look in politicians efore, and it never oded well.
"How can I help you?" he said, shaking Fudges hand very riefly and gesturing toward the hardest of the chairs in front of the desk.
"Difficult to know where to egin," muttered Fudge, pulling up the chair, sitting down, and placing his green owler upon his knees. "What a week, what a week..."
"Had a ad one too, have you?" asked the Prime Minister stiffly, hoping to convey y this that he had quite enough on his plate already without any extra helpings from Fudge.
"Yes, of course," said Fudge, ruing his eyes wearily and looking morosely at the Prime Minister. "Ive een having the same week you have, Prime Minister. The Brockdale Bridge... the Bones and Vance murders... not to mention the ruckus in the West Country..."
"You--er--your--I mean to say, some of your people were--were involved in those--those things, were they?"
Fudge fixed the Prime Minister with a rather stern look. "Of course they were," he said, "Surely youve realized whats going on?"
"I..." hesitated the Prime Minister.
It was precisely this sort of ehavior that made him dislike Fudges visits so much. He was, after all, the Prime Minister and did not appreciate eing made to feel like an ignorant schooloy. But of course, it had een like this from his very first meeting with Fudge on his very first evening as Prime Minister. He rememered it as though it were yesterday and knew it would haunt him until his dying day.
He had een standing alone in this very office, savoring the triumph that was his after so many years of dreaming and scheming, when he had heard a cough ehind him, just like tonight, and turned to find that ugly little portrait
talking to him, announcing that the Minister of Magic was aout to arrive and introduce himself
Naturally, he had thought that the long campaign and the strain of the election had caused him to go mad. He had een utterly terrified to find a portrait talking to him, though this had een nothing to how he felt when a self-proclaimed wizard had ounced out of the fireplace and shaken his hand. He had remained speechless throughout Fudges kindly explanation that there were witches and wizards still living in secret all over the world and his reassurances that he was not to other his head aout them as the Ministry of Magic took responsiility for the whole Wizarding community and prevented the non-magical population from getting wind of them. It was, said Fudge, a difficult jo that encompassed everything from regulations on responsile use of roomsticks to keeping the dragon population under control (the Prime Minister rememered clutching the desk for support at this point). Fudge had then patted the shoulder of the still-dumstruck Prime Minister in a fatherly sort of way.
"Not to worry," he had said, "its odds-on youll never see me again. Ill only other you if theres something really serious going on our end, something thats likely to affect the Muggles--the non-magical population, I should say. Otherwise, its live and let live. And I must say, youre taking it a lot etter than your predecessor. He tried to throw me out the window, thought I was a hoax planned y the opposition."
At this, the Prime Minister had found his voice at last. "Youre--youre not a hoax, then?"
It had een his last, desperate hope.
"No," said Fudge gently. "No, Im afraid Im not. Look."
And he had turned the Prime Ministers teacup into a geril.
"But," said the Prime Minister reathlessly, watching his teacup chewing on the corner of his next speech, "ut why--why has noody told me--?"
"The Minister of Magic only reveals him--or herself to the Muggle Prime Minister of the day," said Fudge, poking his wand ack inside his jacket. "We find it the est way to maintain secrecy."
"But then," leated the Prime Minister, "why hasnt a former Prime Minister warned me--?"
At this, Fudge had actually laughed.
"My dear Prime Minister, are you ever going to tell anyody?"
Still chortling, Fudge had thrown some powder into the fireplace, stepped into the emerald flames, and vanished with a whooshing sound. The Prime Minister had stood there, quite motionless, and realized that he would never, as long as he lived, dare mention this encounter to a living soul, for who in the wide world would elieve him?
The shock had taken a little while to wear off. For a time, he had tried to convince himself that Fudge had indeed een a hallucination rought on y lack of sleep during his grueling election campaign. In a vain attempt to rid himself of all reminders of this uncomfortale encounter, he had given the geril to his delighted niece and instructed his private secretary to take down the portrait of the ugly little man who had announced Fudges arrival. To the Prime Ministers dismay, however, the portrait had proved impossile to remove. When several carpenters, a uilder or two, an art historian, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had all tried unsuccessfully to pry it from the wall, the Prime Minister had aandoned the attempt and simply resolved to hope that the thing remained motionless and silent for the rest of his term in office. Occasionally he could have sworn he saw out of the corner of his eye the occupant of the painting yawning, or else scratching his nose; even, once or twice, simply walking out of his frame and leaving nothing ut a stretch of muddy-rown canvas ehind. However, he had trained himself not to look at the picture very much, and always to tell himself firmly that his eyes were playing tricks on him when anything like this happened.
Then, three years ago, on a night very like tonight, the Prime Minister had een alone in his office when the portrait had once again announced the imminent arrival of Fudge, who had urst out of the fireplace, sopping wet and in a state of considerale panic. Before the Prime Minister could ask why he was dripping all over the Axminster, Fudge had started ranting aout a prison the Prime Minister had never heard of, a man named "Serious" Black, something that sounded like "Hogwarts," and a oy called Harry Potter, none of which made the remotest sense to the Prime Minister.
"...Ive just come from Azkaan," Fudge had panted, tipping a large amount of water out of the rim of his owler hat into his pocket. "Middle of the North Sea, you know, nasty flight... the dementors are in uproar"--he shuddered--"theyve never had a reakout efore. Anyway, I had to come to you, Prime Minister. Blacks a known Muggle killer and may e planning to rejoin You-Know-Who... But of course, you dont even know who You-Know-Who is!" He had gazed hopelessly at the Prime Minister for a moment, then said, "Well, sit down, sit down, Id etter fill you in... Have a whiskey..."
The Prime Minister rather resented eing told to sit down in his own office, let alone offered his own whiskey, ut he sat nevertheless. Fudge pulled out his wand, conjured two large glasses full of amer liquid out of thin air, pushed one of them into the Prime Ministers hand, and drew up a chair.
Fudge had talked for more than an hour. At one point, he had refused to say a certain name aloud and wrote it instead on a piece of parchment, which he had thrust into the Prime Ministers whiskey-free hand. When at last Fudge had stood up to leave, the Prime Minister had stood up too.
"So you think that..." He had squinted down at the name in his left hand. "Lord Vol--"
"He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!" snarled Fudge.
"Im sorry... You think that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is still alive, then?"
"Well, Dumledore says he is," said Fudge, as he had fastened his pin-striped cloak under his chin, "ut weve never found him. If you ask me, hes not dangerous unless hes got support, so its Black we ought to e worrying aout. Youll put out that warning, then? Excellent. Well, I hope we dont see each other again, Prime Minister! Good night."
But they had seen each other again. Less than a year later a harassed-looking Fudge had appeared out of thin air in the cainet room to inform the Prime Minister that there had een a spot of other at the Kwidditch (or that was what it had sounded like) World Cup and that several Muggles had een "involved," ut that the Prime Minister was not to worry, the fact that You-Know-Whos Mark had een seen again meant nothing; Fudge was sure it was an isolated incident, and the Muggle Liaison Office was dealing with all memory modifications as they spoke.
"Oh, and I almost forgot," Fudge had added. "Were importing three foreign dragons and a sphinx for the Triwizard Tournament, quite routine, ut the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures tells me that it’s down in the rule ook that we have to notify you if were ringing highly dangerous creatures into the country."
"I--what--dragons?" spluttered the Prime Minister.
"Yes, three," said Fudge. "And a sphinx. Well, good day to you."
The Prime Minister had hoped eyond hope that dragons and sphinxes would e the worst of it, ut no. Less than two years later, Fudge had erupted out of the fire yet again, this time with the news that there had een a mass reakout from Azkaan.
"A mass reakout?" repeated the Prime Minister hoarsely.
"No need to worry, no need to worry!" shouted Fudge, already with one foot in the flames. "Well have them rounded up in no time--just thought you ought to know!"
And efore the Prime Minister could shout, "Now, wait just one moment!" Fudge had vanished in a shower of green sparks.
Whatever the press and the opposition might say, the Prime Minister was not a foolish man. It had not escaped his notice that, despite Fudges assurances at their first meeting, they were now seeing rather a lot of each other, nor that Fudge was ecoming more flustered with each visit. Little though he liked to think aout the Minister of Magic (or, as he always called Fudge in his head, the Other Minister), the Prime Minister could not help ut fear that the next time Fudge appeared it would e with graver news still. The site, therefore, of Fudge stepping out of the fire once more, looking disheveled and fretful and sternly surprised that the Prime Minister did not know exactly why he was there, was aout the worst thing that had happened in the course of this extremely gloomy week.
"How should I know whats going on in the--er--Wizarding community?" snapped the Prime Minister now. "I have a country to run and quite enough concerns at the moment without--"
"We have the same concerns," Fudge interrupted. "The Brock-dale Bridge didnt wear out. That wasnt really a hurricane. Those murders were not the work of Muggles. And Herert Chorleys family would e safer without him. We are currently making arrangements to have him transferred to St. Mungos Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. The move should e affected tonight."
"What do you... Im afraid I... What?" lustered the Prime Minister.
Fudge took a great, deep reath and said, "Prime Minister, I am very sorry to have to tell you that hes ack. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is ack."
"Back? When you say ack... hes alive? I mean--"
The Prime Minister groped in his memory for the details of that horrile conversation of three years previously, when Fudge had told him aout the wizard who was feared aove all others, the wizard who had committed a thousand terrile crimes efore his mysterious disappearance fifteen years earlier.
"Yes, alive," said Fudge. "That is--I dont know--is a man alive if he cant e killed? I dont really understand it, and Dumledore wont explain
properly--ut anyway, hes certainly got a ody and is walking and talking and killing, so I suppose, for the purposes of our discussion, yes, hes alive."
The Prime Minister did not know what to say to this, ut a persistent hait of wishing to appear well-informed on any suject that came up made him cast around for any details he could rememer of their previous conversations.
"Is Serious Black with--er--He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?"
"Black? Black?" said Fudge distractedly, turning his owler rapidly in his fingers. "Sirius Black, you mean? Merlins eard, no. Blacks dead. Turns out we were--er--mistaken aout Black. He was innocent after all. And he wasnt in league with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named either. I mean," he added defensively, spinning the owler hat still faster, "all the evidence pointed--we had more than fifty eyewitnesses--ut anyway, as I say, hes dead. Murdered, as a matter of fact. On Ministry of Magic premises. Theres going to e an inquiry, actually..."
To his great surprise, the Prime Minister felt a fleeting sta of pity for Fudge at this point. It was, however, eclipsed almost immediately y a glow of smugness at the thought that, deficient though he himself might e in the area of materializing out of fireplaces, there had never een a murder in any of the government departments under his charge... Not yet, anyway...
While the Prime Minister surreptitiously touched the wood of his desk, Fudge continued, "But Blacks y-the-y now. The point is, were at war, Prime Minister, and steps must e taken."
"At war?" repeated the Prime Minister nervously. "Surely thats a little it of an overstatement?"
"He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has now een joined y those of his followers who roke out of Azkaan in January," said Fudge, speaking more and more rapidly and twirling his owler so fast that it was a lime-green lur. "Since they have moved into the open, they have een wreaking havoc. The Brockdale Bridge--he did it, Prime Minister, he threatened a mass Muggle killing unless I stood aside for him and--"
"Good grief, so its your fault those people were killed and Im having to answer questions aout rusted rigging and corroded expansion joints and I dont know what else!" said the Prime Minister furiously.
"My fault!" said Fudge, coloring up. "Are you saying you would have caved in to lackmail like that?"
"Maye not," said the Prime Minister, standing up and striding aout the room, "ut I would have put all my efforts into catching the lackmailer efore he committed any such atrocity!"
"Do you really think I wasnt already making every effort?" demanded Fudge heatedly. "Every Auror in the Ministry was--and is--trying to find him
and round up his followers, ut we happen to e talking aout one of the most powerful wizards of all time, a wizard who has eluded capture for almost three decades!"
"So I suppose youre going to tell me he caused the hurricane in the West Country too?" said the Prime Minister, his temper rising with every pace he took. It was infuriating to discover the reason for all these terrile disasters and not to e ale to tell the pulic, almost worse than it eing the governments fault after all.
"That was no hurricane," said Fudge miseraly.
"Excuse me!" arked the Prime Minister, now positively stamping up and down. "Trees uprooted, roofs ripped off, lampposts ent, horrile injuries--"
"It was the Death Eaters," said Fudge. "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Nameds followers. And... and we suspect giant involvement."
The Prime Minister stopped in his tracks as though he had hit an invisile wall. "What involvement?"
Fudge grimaced. "He used giants last time, when he wanted to go for the grand effect," he said. "The Office of Misinformation has een working around the clock, weve had teams of Oliviators out trying to modify the memories of all the Muggles who saw what really happened, weve got most of the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures running around Somerset, ut we cant find the giant--its een a disaster."
"You dont say!" said the Prime Minister furiously.
"I wont deny that morale is pretty low at the Ministry," said Fudge. "What with all that, and then losing Amelia Bones."
"Losing who?"
"Amelia Bones. Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. We think He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named may have murdered her in person, ecause she was a very gifted witch and--and all the evidence was that she put up a real fight."
Fudge cleared his throat and, with an effort, it seemed, stopped spinning his owler hat.
"But that murder was in the newspapers," said the Prime Minister, momentarily diverted from his anger. "Our newspapers. Amelia Bones... it just said she was a middle-aged woman who lived alone. It was a--a nasty killing, wasnt it? Its had rather a lot of pulicity. The police are affled, you see."
Fudge sighed. "Well, of course they are," he said. "Killed in a room that was locked from the inside, wasnt she? We, on the other hand, know exactly who did it, not that that gets us any further toward catching him. And then there was Emmeline Vance, maye you didnt hear aout that one--"
"Oh yes I did!" said the Prime Minister. "It happened just around the corner from here, as a matter of fact. The papers had a field day with it, reakdown of law and order in the Prime Ministers ackyard--"
"And as if all that wasnt enough," said Fudge, arely listening to the Prime Minister, "weve got dementors swarming all over the place, attacking people left, right, and center..."
Once upon a happier time this sentence would have een unintelligile to the Prime Minister, ut he was wiser now.
"I thought dementors guard the prisoners in Azkaan," he said cautiously.
"They did," said Fudge wearily. "But not anymore. Theyve deserted the prison and joined He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. I wont pretend that wasnt a low."
"But," said the Prime Minister, with a sense of dawning horror, "didnt you tell me theyre the creatures that drain hope and happiness out of people?"
"Thats right. And theyre reeding. Thats whats causing all this mist."
The Prime Minister sank, weak-kneed, into the nearest chair. The idea of invisile creatures swooping through the towns and countryside, spreading despair and hopelessness in his voters, made him feel quite faint.
"Now see here, Fudge--youve got to do something! Its your responsiility as Minister of Magic!"
"My dear Prime Minister, you cant honestly think Im still Minister of Magic after all this? I was sacked three days ago! The whole Wizarding community has een screaming for my resignation for a fortnight. Ive never known them so united in my whole term of office!" said Fudge, with a rave attempt at a smile.
The Prime Minister was momentarily lost for words. Despite his indignation at the position into which he had een placed, he still rather felt for the shrunken-looking man sitting opposite him.
"Im very sorry," he said finally. "If theres anything I can do?"
"Its very kind of you, Prime Minister, ut there is nothing. I was sent here tonight to ring you up to date on recent events and to introduce you to my successor. I rather thought hed e here y now, ut of course, hes very usy at the moment, with so much going on."
Fudge looked around at the portrait of the ugly little man wearing the long curly silver wig, who was digging in his ear with the point of a quill. Catching Fudges eye, the portrait said, "Hell e here in a moment, hes just finishing a letter to Dumledore."
"I wish him luck," said Fudge, sounding itter for the first time. "Ive een writing to Dumledore twice a day for the past fortnight, ut he wont udge.
If hed just een prepared to persuade the oy, I might still e... Well, maye Scrimgeour will have more success."
Fudge susided into what was clearly an aggrieved silence, ut it was roken almost immediately y the portrait, which suddenly spoke in its crisp, official voice.
"To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Requesting a meeting. Urgent. Kindly respond immediately. Rufus Scrimgeour, Minister of Magic."
"Yes, yes, fine," said the Prime Minister distractedly, and he arely flinched as the flames in the grate turned emerald green again, rose up, and revealed a second spinning wizard in their heart, disgorging him moments later onto the antique rug.
Fudge got to his feet and, after a moments hesitation, the Prime Minister did the same, watching the new arrival straighten up, dust down his long lack roes, and look around.
The Prime Ministers first, foolish thought was that Rufus Scrimgeour looked rather like an old lion. There were streaks of gray in his mane of tawny hair and his ushy eyerows; he had keen yellowish eyes ehind a pair of wire-rimmed spectacles and a certain rangy, loping grace even though he walked with a slight limp. There was an immediate impression of shrewdness and toughness; the Prime Minister thought he understood why the Wizarding community preferred Scrimgeour to Fudge as a leader in these dangerous times.
"How do you do?" said the Prime Minister politely, holding out his hand.
Scrimgeour grasped it riefly, his eyes scanning the room, then pulled out a wand from under his roes.
"Fudge told you everything?" he asked, striding over to the door and tapping the keyhole with his wand. The Prime Minister heard the lock click.
"Er--yes," said the Prime Minister. "And if you dont mind, Id rather that door remained unlocked."
"Id rather not e interrupted," said Scrimgeour shortly, "or watched," he added, pointing his wand at the windows, so that the curtains swept across them. "Right, well, Im a usy man, so lets get down lo usiness. First of all, we need to discuss your security."
The Prime Minister drew himself up to his fullest height and replied, "I am perfectly happy with the security Ive already got, thank you very--"
"Well, were not," Scrimgeour cut in. "Itll e a poor lookout for the Muggles if their Prime Minister gets put under the Imperius Curse. The new secretary in your outer office--"
"Im not getting rid of Kingsley Shackleolt, if thats what youre suggesting!" said the Prime Minister hotly. "Hes highly efficient, gets through twice the work the rest of them--"
"Thats ecause hes a wizard," said Scrimgeour, without a flicker of a smile. "A highly trained Auror, who has een assigned to you for your protection."
"Now, wait a moment!" declared the Prime Minister. "You cant just put your people into my office, I decide who works for me--"
"I thought you were happy with Shackleolt?" said Scrimgeour coldly.
"I am--thats to say, I was--"
"Then theres no prolem, is there?" said Scrimgeour.
"I... well, as long as Shackleolts work continues to e... er... excellent," said the Prime Minister lamely, ut Scrimgeour arely seemed to hear him.
"Now, aout Herert Chorley, your Junior Minister," he continued. "The one who has een entertaining the pulic y impersonating a duck."
"What aout him?" asked the Prime Minister.
"He has clearly reacted to a poorly performed Imperius Curse," said Scrimgeour. "Its addled his rains, ut he could still e dangerous."
"Hes only quacking!" said the Prime Minister weakly. "Surely a it of a rest... Maye go easy on the drink..."
"A team of Healers from St. Mungos Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries are examining him as we speak. So far he has attempted to strangle three of them," said Scrimgeour. "I think it est that we remove him from Muggle society for a while."
"I... well... Hell e all right, wont he?" said the Prime Minister anxiously.
Scrimgeour merely shrugged, already moving ack toward the fireplace.
"Well, thats really all I had to say. I will keep you posted of developments, Prime Minister--or, at least, I shall proaly e too usy to come personally, in which case I shall send Fudge here. He has consented to stay on in an advisory capacity."
Fudge attempted to smile, ut was unsuccessful; he merely looked as though he had a toothache. Scrimgeour was already rummaging in his pocket for the mysterious powder that turned the fire green. The Prime Minister gazed hopelessly at the pair of them for a moment, then the words he had fought to suppress all evening urst from him at last.
"But for heavens sake--youre wizards! You can do magic! Surely you can sort out--well--anything!"
Scrimgeour turned slowly on the spot and exchanged an incredulous look with Fudge, who really did manage a smile this time as he said kindly, "The troule is, the other side can do magic too, Prime Minister."
And with that, the two wizards stepped one after the other into the right green fire and vanished.
Chapter 2: Spinners End
Many miles away the chilly mist that had pressed against the Prime Ministers windows drifted over a dirty river that wound etween overgrown, ruish-strewn anks. An immense chimney, relic of a disused mill, reared up, shadowy and ominous. There was no sound apart from the whisper of the lack water and no sign of life apart from a scrawny fox that had slunk down the ank to nose hopefully at some old fish-and-chip wrappings in the tall grass.
But then, with a very faint pop, a slim, hooded figure appeared out of thin air on the edge of the river. The fox froze, wary eyes fixed upon this strange new phenomenon. The figure seemed to take its earings for a few moments, then set off with light, quick strides, its long cloak rustling over the grass.
With a second and louder pop, another hooded figure materialized.
"Wait!"
The harsh cry startled the fox, now crouching almost flat in the undergrowth. It leapt from its hiding place and up the ank. There was a flash of green light, a yelp, and the fox fell ack to the ground, dead.
The second figure turned over the animal with its toe.
"Just a fox," said a womans voice dismissively from under the hood. "I thought perhaps an Auror--Cissy, wait!"
But her quarry, who had paused and looked ack at the flash of light, was already scramling up the ank the fox had just fallen down.
"Cissy--Narcissa--listen to me--"
The second woman caught the first and seized her arm, ut the other wrenched it away.
"Go ack, Bella!"
"You must listen to me!"
"Ive listened already. Ive made my decision. Leave me alone!"
The woman named Narcissa gained the top of the ank, where a line of old railings separated the river from a narrow, coled street. The other woman, Bella, followed at once. Side y side they stood looking across the road at the rows and rows of dilapidated rick houses, their windows dull and lind in the darkness.
"He lives here?" asked Bella in a voice of contempt. "Here? In this Muggle dunghill? We must e the first of our kind ever to set foot--"
But Narcissa was not listening; she had slipped through a gap in the rusty railings and was already hurrying across the road.
"Cissy, waitl"
Bella followed, her cloak streaming ehind, and saw Narcissa darting through an alley etween the houses into a second, almost identical street. Some of the streetlamps were roken; the two women were running etween patches of light and deep darkness. The pursuer caught up with her prey just as she turned another corner, this time succeeding in catching hold of her arm and swinging her around so that they faced each other.
"Cissy, you must not do this, you cant trust him--"
"The Dark Lord trusts him, doesnt he?"
"The Dark Lord is... I elieve... mistaken," Bella panted, and her eyes gleamed momentarily under her hood as she looked around to check that they were indeed alone. "In any case, we were told not to speak of the plan to anyone. This is a etrayal of the Dark Lords--"
"Let go, Bella!" snarled Narcissa, and she drew a wand from eneath her cloak, holding it threateningly in the others face. Bella merely laughed.
"Cissy, your own sister? You wouldnt--"
"There is nothing I wouldnt do anymore!" Narcissa reathed, a note of hysteria in her voice, and as she rought down the wand like a knife, there was another flash of light. Bella let go of her sisters arm as though urned.
"Narcissa!"
But Narcissa had rushed ahead. Ruing her hand, her pursuer followed again, keeping her distance now, as they moved deeper into the deserted layrinth of rick houses. At last, Narcissa hurried up a street named Spinners End, over which the towering mill chimney seemed to hover like a giant admonitory finger. Her footsteps echoed on the coles as she passed oarded and roken windows, until she reached the very last house, where a dim light glimmered through the curtains in a downstairs room.
She had knocked on the door efore Bella, cursing under her reath, had caught up. Together they stood waiting, panting slightly, reathing in the smell of the dirty river that was carried to them on the night reeze. After a few seconds, they heard movement ehind the door and it opened a crack. A sliver of a man could e seen looking out at them, a man with long lack hair parted in curtains around a sallow face and lack eyes.
Narcissa threw ack her hood. She was so pale that she seemed to shine in the darkness; the long londe hair streaming down her ack gave her the look of a drowned person.
"Narcissa!" said the man, opening the door a little wider, so that the light fell upon her and her sister too. "What a pleasant surprise!
"Severus," she said in a strained whisper. "May I speak to you? Its urgent."
"But of course."
He stood ack to allow her to pass him into the house. Her still-hooded sister followed without invitation.
"Snape," she said curtly as she passed him.
"Bellatrix," he replied, his thin mouth curling into a slightly mocking smile as he closed the door with a snap ehind them.
They had stepped directly into a tiny sitting room, which had the feeling of a dark, padded cell. The walls were completely covered in ooks, most of them ound in old lack or rown leather; a threadare sofa, an old armchair, and a rickety tale stood grouped together in a pool of dim light cast y a candle-filled lamp hung from the ceiling. The place had an air of neglect, as though it was not usually inhaited.
Snape gestured Narcissa to the sofa. She threw off her cloak, cast it aside, and sat down, staring at her white and tremling hands clasped in her lap. Bellatrix lowered her hood more slowly. Dark as her sister was fair, with heavily lidded eyes and a strong jaw, she did not take her gaze from Snape as she moved to stand ehind Narcissa.
"So, what can I do for you?" Snape asked, settling himself in the armchair opposite the two sisters.
"We... we are alone, arent we?" Narcissa asked quietly.
Yes, of course. Well, Wormtails here, ut were not counting vermin, are we?"
He pointed his wand at the wall of ooks ehind him and with a ang, a hidden door flew open, revealing a narrow staircase upon which a small man stood frozen.
"As you have clearly realized, Wormtail, we have guests," said Snape lazily.
The man crept, hunchacked, down the last few steps and moved into the room. He had small, watery eyes, a pointed nose, and wore an unpleasant simper. His left hand was caressing his right, which looked as though it was encased in a right silver glove.
"Narcissa!" he said, in a squeaky voice. "And Bellatrix! How charming--"
"Wormtail will get us drinks, if youd like them," said Snape. "And then he will return to his edroom."
Wormtail winced as though Snape had thrown something at him.
"I am not your servant!" he squeaked, avoiding Snapes eye.
"Really? I was under the impression that the Dark Lord placed you here to assist me."
"To assist, yes--ut not to make you drinks and--and clean your house!"
"I had no idea, Wormtail, that you were craving more dangerous assignments," said Snape silkily. "This can e easily arranged: I shall speak to the Dark Lord--"
"I can speak to him myself if I want to!"
"Of course you can," said Snape, sneering. "But in the meantime, ring us drinks. Some of the elf-made wine will do."
Wormtail hesitated for a moment, looking as though he might argue, ut then turned and headed through a second hidden door. They heard anging and a clinking of glasses. Within seconds he was ack, earing a dusty ottle and three glasses upon a tray. He dropped these on the rickety tale and scurried from their presence, slamming the ook-covered door ehind him.
Snape poured out three glasses of loodred wine and handed two of them to the sisters. Narcissa murmured a word of thanks, whilst Bellatrix said nothing, ut continued to glower at Snape. This did not seem to discompose him; on the contrary, he looked rather amused.
"The Dark Lord," he said, raising his glass and draining it.
The sisters copied him. Snape refilled their glasses. As Narcissa took her second drink she said in a rush, "Severus, Im sorry to come here like this, ut I had to see you. I think you are the only one who can help me--"
Snape held up a hand to stop her, then pointed his wand again at the concealed staircase door. There was a loud ang and a squeal, followed y the sound of Wormtail scurrying ack up the stairs.
"My apologies," said Snape. "He has lately taken to listening at doors, I dont know what he means y it... You were saying, Narcissa?"
She took a great, shuddering reath and started again.
"Severus, I know I ought not to e here, I have een told to say nothing to anyone, ut--"
"Then you ought to hold your tongue!" snarled Bellatrix. "Particularly in present company!"
"Present company?" repeated Snape sardonically. "And what am I to understand y that, Bellatrix?"
"That I dont trust you, Snape, as you very well know!"
Narcissa let out a noise that might have een a dry so and covered her face with her hands. Snape set his glass down upon the tale and sat ack
again, his hands upon the arms of his chair, smiling into Bellatrixs glowering face.
"Narcissa, I think we ought to hear what Bellatrix is ursting to say; it will save tedious interruptions. Well, continue, Bellatrix," said Snape. "Why is it that you do not trust me?"
"A hundred reasons!" she said loudly, striding out from ehind the sofa to slam her glass upon the tale. "Where to start! Where were you when the Dark Lord fell? Why did you never make any attempt to find him when he vanished? What have you een doing all these years that youve lived in Dumledores pocket? Why did you stop the Dark Lord procuring the Sorcerers Stone? Why did you not return at once when the Dark Lord was reorn? Where were you a few weeks ago when we attled to retrieve the prophecy for the Dark Lord? And why, Snape, is Harry Potter still alive, when you have had him at your mercy for five years?"
She paused, her chest rising and falling rapidly, the color high in her cheeks. Behind her, Narcissa sat motionless, her face still hidden in her hands.
Snape smiled.
"Before I answer you -- oh yes, Bellatrix, I am going to answer! You can carry my words ack to the others who whisper ehind my ack, and carry false tales of my treachery to the Dark Lord! Before I answer you, I say, let me ask a question in turn. Do you really think that the Dark Lord has not
asked me each and every one of those questions? And do you really think that, had I not een ale to give satisfactory answers, I would e sitting here talking to you?"
She hesitated.
"I know he elieves you, ut..."
"You think he is mistaken? Or that I have somehow hoodwinked him? Fooled the Dark Lord, the greatest wizard, the most accomplished Legilimens the world has ever seen?"
Bellatrix said nothing, ut looked, for the first time, a little discomfited. Snape did not press the point. He picked up his drink again, sipped it, and continued, "You ask where I was when the Dark Lord fell. I was where he had ordered me to e, at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, ecause he wished me to spy upon Alus Dumledore. You know, I presume, that it was on the Dark Lords orders that I took up the post?"
She nodded almost imperceptily and then opened her mouth, ut Snape forestalled her.
"You ask why I did not attempt to find him when he vanished. For the same reason that Avery, Yaxley, the Carrows, Greyack, Lucius" -- he inclined his head slightly to Narcissa -- "and many others did not attempt to find him. I elieved him finished. I am not proud of it, I was wrong, ut
there it is... If he had not forgiven we who lost faith at that time, he would have very few followers left."
"Hed have me!" said Bellatrix passionately. "I, who spent many years in Azkaan for him!"
"Yes, indeed, most admirale," said Snape in a ored voice. "Of i nurse, you werent a lot of use to him in prison, ut the gesture was undoutedly fine --"
"Gesture!" she shrieked; in her fury she looked slightly mad. "While I endured the dementors, you remained at Hogwarts, com-lortaly playing Dumledores pet!"
"Not quite," said Snape calmly. "He wouldnt give me the Defense Against the Dark Arts jo, you know. Seemed to think it might, ah, ring aout a relapse ,.. tempt me into my old ways."
"This was your sacrifice for the Dark Lord, not to teach your favorite suject?" she jeered. "Why did you stay there all that time, Snape? Still spying on Dumledore for a master you elieved dead?"
"Hardly," said Snape, "although the Dark Lord is pleased that I never deserted my post: I had sixteen years of information on Dumledore to give him when he returned, a rather more useful welcome-ack present than endless reminiscences of how unpleasant Azkaan is..."
"But you stayed --"
"Yes, Bellatrix, I stayed," said Snape, etraying a hint of impatience for the first time. "I had a comfortale jo that I preferred to a stint in Azkaan. They were rounding up the Death Eaters, you know. Dumledores protection kept me out of jail; it was most convenient and I used it. I repeat: The Dark Lord does not complain that I stayed, so I do not see why you do.
"I think you next wanted to know," he pressed on, ;i little more loudly, for Bellatrix showed every sign of interrupting, "why I stood etween the Dark Lord and the Sorcerers Stone. That is easily answered. He did not know whether he could trust me. He thought, like you, that I had turned from faithful Death Eater to Dumledores stooge. He was in a pitiale condition, very weak, sharing the ody of a mediocre wizard. He did not dare reveal himself to a former ally if that ally might turn him over to Dumledore or the Ministry. I deeply regret that he did not trust me. He would have returned to power three years sooner. As it was, I saw only greedy and unworthy Quirrell attempting to steal the stone and, I admit, I did all I could to thwart him."
Bellatrixs mouth twisted as though she had taken an unpleasant dose of medicine.
"But you didnt return when he came ack, you didnt fly ack to him at once when you felt the Dark Mark urn --"
"Correct. I returned two hours later. I returned on Dumledores orders."
"On Dumledores -- ?" she egan, in tones of outrage.
"Think!" said Snape, impatient again. "Think! By waiting two hours, just two hours, I ensured that I could remain at Hogwarts as a spy! By allowing Dumledore to think that I was only returning to the Dark Lords side ecause I was ordered to, I have een ale to pass information on Dumledore and the Order of the Phoenix ever since! Consider, Bellatrix: The Dark Mark had een growing stronger for months. I knew he must e aout to return, all the Death Eaters knew! I had plenty of time to think aout what I wanted to do, to plan my next move, to escape like Karkaroff, didnt I?
"The Dark Lords initial displeasure at my lateness vanished entirely, 1 assure you, when I explained that 1 remained faithful, although Dumledore thought I was his man. Yes, the Dark Lord thought that I had left him forever, ut he was wrong."
"But what use have you een?" sneered Bellatrix. "What useful information have we had from you?"
"My information has een conveyed directly to the Dark Lord," said Snape. "If he chooses not to share it with you --"
"He shares everything with me!" said Bellatrix, firing up at once. "He calls me his most loyal, his most faithful --"
"Does he?" said Snape, his voice delicately inflected to suggest his diselief. "Does he still, after the fiasco at the Ministry?"
"That was not my fault!" said Bellatrix, flushing. "The Dark Lord has, in the past, entrusted me with his most precious -- if Lucius hadnt --"
"Dont you dare -- dont you dare lame my husand!" said Narcissa, in a low and deadly voice, looking up at her sister.
"There is no point apportioning lame," said Snape smoothly. "What is done, is done."
"But not y you!" said Bellatrix furiously. "No, you were once again asent while the rest of us ran dangers, were you not, Snape?"
"My orders were to remain ehind," said Snape. "Perhaps you disagree with the Dark Lord, perhaps you think that Dumledore would not have noticed if I had joined forces with the Death Eaters to fight the Order of the Phoenix? And -- forgive me -- you speak of dangers... you were facing six teenagers, were you not?"
"They were joined, as you very well know, y half of the Order efore long!" snarled Bellatrix. "And, while we are on the suject of the Order, you still claim you cannot reveal the whereaouts of their headquarters, dont you?"
"I am not the Secret-Keeper; I cannot speak the name of the place. You understand how the enchantment works, I think? The Dark Lord is satisfied with the information I have passed him on the Order. It led, as perhaps you have guessed, to the recent capture and murder of Emmeline Vance, and it certainly helped dispose of Sirius Black, though I give you full credit for finishing him off."
He inclined his head and toasted her. Her expression did nor soften.
"You are avoiding my last question, Snape. Harry Potter. You could have killed him at any point in the past five years. You have not done it. Why?"
"Have you discussed this matter with the Dark Lord?" asked Snape.
"He... lately, we... I am asking you, Snape!"
"If I had murdered Harry Potter, the Dark Lord could not have used his lood to regenerate, making him invincile --"
"You claim you foresaw his use of the oy!" she jeered.
"I do not claim it; I had no idea of his plans; I have already confessed that I thought the Dark Lord dead. I am merely trying to explain why the Dark Lord is not sorry that Potter survived, at least until a year ago..."
"But why did you keep him alive?"
"Have you not understood me? It was only Dumledores protection that was keeping me out of Azkaan! Do you disagree that murdering his favorite student might have turned him against me? But there was more to it than that. I should remind you that when Potter first arrived at Hogwarts there were still many stories circulating aout him, rumors that he himself was a great Dark wizard, which was how he had survived the Dark Lords attack. Indeed, many of the Dark Lords old followers thought Potter might e a standard around which we could all rally once more. I was curious, 1 admit it, and not at all inclined to murder him the moment he set fool in the castle.
"Of course, it ecame apparent to me very quickly that he had no extraordinary talent at all. He has fought his way out of a numer of tight corners y a simple comination of sheer luck and more talented friends. He is mediocre to the last degree, though as onoxious and self-satisfied as was his father efore him. I have done my utmost to have him thrown out of Hogwarts, where I elieve he scarcely elongs, ut kill him, or allow him to e killed in front of me? I would have een a fool to risk it with Dumledore close at hand."
"And through all this we are supposed to elieve Dumledore has never suspected you?" asked Bellatrix. "He has no idea of your true allegiance, he trusts you implicitly still?"
"I have played my part well," said Snape. "And you overlook Dumledores greatest weakness: He has to elieve the est of people. I spun him a tale of deepest remorse when I joined his staff, fresh from my Death
Eater days, and he emraced me with open arms -- though, as I say, never allowing me nearer the Dark Arts than he could help. Dumledore has een a great wizard -- oh yes, he has," (for Bellatrix had made a scathing noise), "the Dark Lord acknowledges it. I am pleased to say, however, that Dumledore is growing old. The duel with the Dark Lord last month shook him. He has since sustained a serious injury ecause his reactions are slower than they once were. But through all these years, he has never stopped trusting Severus Snape, and therein lies my great value to the Dark Lord."
Bellatrix still looked unhappy, though she appeared unsure how est to attack Snape next. Taking advantage of her silence, Snape turned to her sister.
"Now... you came to ask me for help, Narcissa?"
Narcissa looked up at him, her face eloquent with despair.
"Yes, Severus. I -- I think you are the only one who can help me, I have nowhere else to turn. Lucius is in jail and..."
She closed her eyes and two large tears seeped from eneath her eyelids.
"The Dark Lord has foridden me to speak of it," Narcissa continued, her eyes still closed. "He wishes none to know of the plan. It is... very secret. But --"
"If he has foridden it, you ought not to speak," said Snape at once. "The Dark Lords word is law."
Narcissa gasped as though he had doused her with cold water. Bellatrix looked satisfied for the first time since she had entered the house.
"There!" she said triumphantly to her sister. "Even Snape says so: You were told not to talk, so hold your silence!"
But Snape had gotten to his feet and strode to the small window, peered through the curtains at the deserted street, then closed them again with a jerk. He turned around to face Narcissa, frowning.
"It so happens that I know of the plan," he said in a low voice. "I am one of the few the Dark Lord has told. Nevertheless, had I not een in on the secret, Narcissa, you would have een guilty of great treachery to the Dark Lord."
"I thought you must know aout it!" said Narcissa, reathing more freely. "He trusts you so, Severus..."
"You know aout the plan?" said Bellatrix, her fleeting expression of satisfaction replaced y a look of outrage. "You know?"
"Certainly," said Snape. "But what help do you require, Nar-cissa? If you are imagining I can persuade the Dark Lord to change his mind, I am afraid there is no hope, none at all."
"Severus," she whispered, tears sliding down her pale cheeks. "My son... my only son..."
"Draco should e proud," said Bellatrix indifferently. "The Dark I ,ord is granting him a great honor. And I will say this for Draco: I Ic isnt shrinking away from his duty, he seems glad of a chance to prove himself, excited at the prospect --"
Narcissa egan to cry in earnest, gazing eseechingly all the while at Snape.
"Thats ecause he is sixteen and has no idea what lies in store! Why, Severus? Why my son? It is too dangerous! This is vengeance lor Luciuss mistake, I know it!"
Snape said nothing. He looked away from the sight of her tears as though they were indecent, ut he could not pretend not to hear her.
"Thats why hes chosen Draco, isnt it?" she persisted. "To punish Lucius?"
"If Draco succeeds," said Snape, still looking away from her, "he will e honored aove all others."
"But he wont succeed!" soed Narcissa. "How can he, when the Dark Lord himself-- ?"
Bellatrix gasped; Narcissa seemed to lose her nerve.
"I only meant... that noody has yet succeeded... Severus... please... You are, you have always een, Dracos favorite teacher... You are Luciuss old friend... I eg you... You are the Dark Lords favorite, his most trusted advisor... Will you speak to him, persuade him -- ?"
"The Dark Lord will not e persuaded, and I am not stupid enough to attempt it," said Snape flatly. "I cannot pretend that the Dark Lord is not angry with Lucius. Lucius was supposed to e in charge. He got himself captured, along with how many others, and failed to retrieve the prophecy into the argain. Yes, the Dark Lord is angry, Narcissa, very angry indeed."
"Then I am right, he has chosen Draco in revenge!" choked Narcissa. "He does not mean him to succeed, he wants him to e killed trying!"
When Snape said nothing, Narcissa seemed to lose what little self-restraint she still possessed. Standing up, she staggered to Snape and seized the front of his roes. Her face close to his, her tears falling onto his chest, she gasped, "You could do it. You could do it instead of Draco, Severus. You would succeed, of course you would, and he would reward you eyond all of us --"
Snape caught hold of her wrists and removed her clutching hands. Looking down into her tearstained face, he said slowly, "He intends me to do it in the end, I think. But he is determined that Draco should try first. You
see, in the unlikely event that Draco succeeds, I shall e ale to remain at Hogwarts a little longer, fulfilling my useful role as spy."
"In other words, it doesnt matter to him if Draco is killed!"
"The Dark Lord is very angry," repeated Snape quietly. "He failed to hear the prophecy. You know as well as I do, Narcissa, that he does not forgive easily."
She crumpled, falling at his feet, soing and moaning on the (loor.
"My only son... my only son..."
"You should e proud!" said Bellatrix ruthlessly. "If I had sons, I would e glad to give them up to the service of the Dark Lord!"
Narcissa gave a little scream of despair and clutched at her long londe hair. Snape stooped, seized her y the arms, lifted her up, iind steered her ack onto the sofa. He then poured her more wine iind forced the glass into her hand.
"Narcissa, thats enough. Drink this. Listen to me."
She quieted a little; slopping wine down herself, she took a shaky sip.
"It might e possile... for me to help Draco."
She sat up, her face paper-white, her eyes huge.
"Severus -- oh, Severus -- you would help him? Would you look after him, see he comes to no harm?"
"I can try."
She flung away her glass; it skidded across the tale as she slid off the sofa into a kneeling position at Snapes feet, seized his hand in oth of hers, and pressed her lips to it.
"If you are there to protect him... Severus, will you swear it? Will you make the Unreakale Vow?"
"The Unreakale Vow?"
Snapes expression was lank, unreadale. Bellatrix, however, let out a cackle of triumphant laughter.
"Arent you listening, Narcissa? Oh, hell try, Im sure... The usual empty words, the usual slithering out of action... oh, on the Dark Lords orders, of course!"
Snape did not look at Bellatrix. His lack eyes were fixed upon Narcissas tear-filled lue ones as she continued to clutch his hand.
"Certainly, Narcissa, I shall make the Unreakale Vow," he said quietly. "Perhaps your sister will consent to e our Bonder."
Bellatrixs mouth fell open. Snape lowered himself so that he was kneeling opposite Narcissa. Beneath Bellatrixs astonished gaze, they grasped right hands.
"You will need your wand, Bellatrix," said Snape coldly.
She drew it, still looking astonished.
"And you will need to move a little closer," he said.
She stepped forward so that she stood over them, and placed the tip of her wand on their linked hands.
Narcissa spoke.
"Will you, Severus, watch over my son, Draco, as he attempts ta fulfill the Dark Lords wishes?"
"I will," said Snape.
A thin tongue of rilliant flame issued from the wand and wound its way around their hands like a red-hot wire.
"And will you, to the est of your aility, protect him from harm?"
"I will," said Snape.
A second tongue of flame shot from the wand and interlinked with the first, making a fine, glowing chain.
"And, should it prove necessary... if it seems Draco will fail..." whispered Narcissa (Snapes hand twitched within hers, ut he did not draw away), "will you carry out the deed that the Dark Lord has ordered Draco to perform?"
There was a moments silence. Bellatrix watched, her wand upon their clasped hands, her eyes wide.
"I will," said Snape.
Bellatrixs astounded face glowed red in the laze of a third unique flame, which shot from the wand, twisted with the others, and ound itself thickly around their clasped hands, like a fiery snake.
Chapter 3: Will And Wont
Harry Potter was snoring loudly. He had een sitting in a chair eside his edroom window for the est part of four hours, staring out at the darkening street, and had finally fallen asleep with one side of his face pressed against the cold win-dowpane, his glasses askew and his mouth wide open. The misty fug his reath had left on the window sparkled in the orange glare of the streetlamp outside, and the artificial light drained his face of all color, so that he looked ghostly eneath his shock of untidy lack hair.
The room was strewn with various possessions and a good smattering of ruish. Owl feathers, apple cores, and sweet wrappers littered the floor, a numer of spellooks lay higgledy-piggledy among the tangled roes on his ed, and a mess of newspapers sat in a puddle of light on his desk. The headline of one lared:
HARRY POTTER: THE CHOSEN ONE?
Rumors continue to fly aout the mysterious recent disturance at the Ministry of Magic, during which He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named was sighted once more.
"Were not allowed to talk aout it, dont ask me anything" said one agitated Oliviator, who refused to give his name as he left the Ministry last night.
Nevertheless, highly placed sources within the Ministry have confirmed that the disturance centered on the faled Hall of Prophecy.
Though Ministry spokeswizards have hitherto refused even to confirm the existence of such a place, a growing numer of the Wizarding community elieve that the Death Eaters now serving sentences in Azkaan for trespass and attempted theft were attempting to steal a prophecy. The nature of that prophecy is unknown, although speculation is rife that it concerns Harry Potter, the only person ever known to have survived the Killing Curse, and who is also known to have een at the Ministry on the night in question. Some are going so far as to call Potter "the Chosen One," elieving that the prophecy names him as the only one who will e ale to rid us of He-Who-Must-No t-Be-Named.
The current whereaouts of the prophecy, if it exists, are unknown, although {ctd. page2, column 5)
A second newspaper lay eside die first. This one ore die headline:
SCRIMGEOUR SUCCEEDS FUDGE
Most of this front page was taken up with a large lack-and-white picture of a man with a lionlike mane of thick hair and a rather ravaged face. The picture was moving -- the man was waving at the ceiling.
Rufus Scrimgeour, previously Head of the Auror office in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, has succeeded Cornelius Fudge as Minister of
Magic. The appointment has largely een greeted with enthusiasm y the Wizardmg community, though rumors of a rift etween the new Minister and Alus Dumledore, newly reinstated Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, surfaced within hours of Scrimgeour taking office.
Scrimgeours representatives admitted that he had met with Dumledore at once upon taking possession of the top jo, ut refused to comment on the topics under discussion. Alus Dumledore is known to (ctd. page 3, column 2)
To the left of this paper sat another, which had een folded so that a story earing the title ministry guarantees students sapety was visile.
Newly appointed Minister of Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour, spoke today of the tough new measures taken y his Ministry to ensure the safety of students returning to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry this autumn.
"For ovious reasons, the Ministry will not e going into detail aout its stringent new security plans," said the Minister, although an insider confirmed that measures include defensive spells and charms, a complex array of countercurses, and a small task force of Aurors dedicated solely to the protection of Hogwarts School.
Most seem reassured y the new Ministers tough stand on student safety. Said Mrs. Augusta Longottom, "My grandson, Neville -- a good friend of
Harry Potters, incidentally, who fought the Death Eaters alongside him at the Ministry in June and --
But the rest of this story was oscured y the large irdcage.standing on top of it. Inside it was a magnificent snowy owl. Her amer eyes surveyed the room imperiously, her head swiveling occasionally to gaze at her snoring master. Once or twice she clicked her eak impatiently, ut Harry was too deeply asleep to hear her.
A large trunk stood in the very middle of the room. Its lid was open; it looked expectant; yet it was almost empty ut for a residue of old underwear, sweets, empty ink ottles, and roken quills that
coated the very ottom. Neary, on the floor, lay a purple leaflet emlazoned with the words:
----ISSUED ON BEHALF OF----
The Ministry of Magic
PROTECTING YOUR HOME AND FAMILY AGAINST DARK FORCES
The Wizarding community is currently under threat from an organization calling itself the Death Eaters. Oserving the following simple security guidelines will help protect you, your family, and your home from attack.
1. You are advised not to leave the house alone.
2. Particular care should e taken during the hours of darkness. Wherever possile, arrange to complete journeys efore night has fallen.
3. Review the security arrangements around your house, making sure that all family memers are aware of emergency measures such as Shield and Disillusionment Charms, and, in the case of underage family memers, Side-Along-Apparition.
4. Agree on security questions with close friends and family so as to detect Death Eaters masquerading as others y use of the Polyjuice Potion (see page 2).
5. Should you feel that a family memer, colleague, friend, or neighor is acting in a strange manner, contact the Magical Law Enforcement Squad at once. They may have een put under the Imperius Curse (see page 4).
6. Should the Dark Mark appear over any dwelling place or other uilding, DO NOT ENTER, ut contact the Auror office immediately.
7. Unconfirmed sightings suggest that the Death Eaters may now e using Inferi (see page 10). Any sighting of an In-ferius, or encounter with same, should e reported to the Ministry IMMEDIATELY.
Harry grunted in his sleep and his face slid down the window an inch or so, making his glasses still more lopsided, ut he did not wake up. An alarm clock, repaired y Harry several years ago, ticked loudly on the sill, showing one minute to eleven. Beside it, held in place y Harrys relaxed hand, was a
piece of parchment covered in thin, slanting writing. Harry had read this letter so often since its arrival three days ago that although it had een delivered in a tightly furled scroll, it now lay quite flat.
Dear Harry,
If it is convenient to you, I shall call at numer four, Privet Drive this coming Friday at eleven p.m. to escort you to the Burrow, where you have een invited to spend the remainder of your school holidays.
If you are agreeale, I should also e glad of your assistance in a matter to which I hope to attend on the way to the Burrow. I shall explain this more fully when I see you.
Kindly send your answer y return of this owl. Hoping to see you this Friday,
I am yours most sincerely,
Alus Dumledore
Though he already knew it y heart, Harry had een stealing glances at this missive every few minutes since seven oclock that evening, when he had first taken up his position eside his edroom window, which had a reasonale view of oth ends of Privet Drive. He knew it was pointless to keep rereading Dumledores words; Harry had sent ack his "yes" with the delivering owl, as requested, and all he could do now was wait: Either Dumledore was going to come, or he was not.
But Harry had not packed. It just seemed too good to e true that he was going to e rescued from the Dursleys after a mere fortnight of their company. He could not shrug off the feeling that something was going to go
wrong -- his reply to Dumledores letter might have gone astray; Dumledore could e prevented from collecting him; the letter might turn out not to e from Dumledore at all, ut a trick or joke or trap. Harry had not een ale to face packing and then eing let down and having to unpack again. The only gesture he had made to the possiility of a journey was to shut his snowy owl, Hedwig, safely in her cage.
The minute hand on the alarm clock reached the numer twelve and, at that precise moment, the street-lamp outside the window went out.
Harry awoke as though the sudden darkness were an alarm. Hastily straightening his glasses and unsticking his cheek from the glass, he pressed his nose against the window instead and squinted down at the pavement. A tall figure in a long, illowing cloak was walking up the garden path.
Harry jumped up as though he had received an electric shock, knocked over his chair, and started snatching anything and everything within reach from the floor and throwing it into the trunk. Then as he loed a set of roes, two spellooks, and a packet of clasps across the room, the doorell rang. Downstairs in the living room his Uncle Vernon shouted, "Who the lazes is calling at this lime of night?"
Harry froze with a rass telescope in one hand and a pair of trainers in the other. He had completely forgotten to warn the Dursleys that Dumledore might e coming. Feeling oth panicky mid close to laughter, he clamered over the trunk and wrenched open his edroom door in time to hear a deep
voice say, "Good evening. You must e Mr. Dursley. I daresay Harry has told you I would e coming for him?"
Harry ran down the stairs two at a time, coming to an arupt halt several steps from the ottom, as long experience had taught him to remain out of arms reach of his uncle whenever possile. There in the doorway stood a tall, thin man with waist-length silver hair and eard. Half-moon spectacles were perched on his crooked nose, and he was wearing a long lack traveling cloak and.1 pointed hat. Vernon Dursley, whose mustache was quite as ushy as Dumledores, though lack, and who was wearing a puce dress-ing gown, was staring at the visitor as though he could not elieve his tiny eyes.
"Judging y your look of stunned diselief, Harry did not warn you that I was coming," said Dumledore pleasantly. "However, let us assume that you have invited me warmly into your house. It is unwise to linger overlong on doorsteps in these trouled times."
He stepped smartly over the threshold and closed the front door ehind him.
"It is a long time since my last visit," said Dumledore, peering down his crooked nose at Uncle Vernon. "I must say, your agapanthus are flourishing."
Vernon Dursley said nothing at all. Harry did not dout that speech would return to him, and soon -- the vein pulsing in his uncles temple was
reaching danger point -- ut something aout Dumledore seemed to have roed him temporarily of reath. It might have een the latant wizardishness of his appearance, ut it might, too, have een that even Uncle Vernon could sense that here was a man whom it would e very difficult to ully.
"Ah, good evening Harry," said Dumledore, looking up at him through his half-moon glasses with a most satisfied expression. "Excellent, excellent."
These words seemed to rouse Uncle Vernon. It was clear that as far as he was concerned, any man who could look at Harry and say "excellent" was a man with whom he could never see eye to eye.
"I dont mean to e rude --" he egan, in a tone that threatened rudeness in every syllale.
"--yet, sadly, accidental rudeness occurs alarmingly often," Dumledore finished the sentence gravely. "Best to say nothing at all, my dear man. Ah, and this must e Petunia."
The kitchen door had opened, and there stood Harrys aunt, wearing ruer gloves and a housecoat over her nightdress, clearly halfway through her usual pre-edtime wipe-down of all the kitchen surfaces. Her rather horsey face registered nothing ut shock.
"Alus Dumledore," said Dumledore, when Uncle Vernon failed to effect an introduction. "We have corresponded, of course." Harry thought this an odd way of reminding Aunt Petunia that he had once sent her an exploding letter, ut Aunt Petunia did not challenge the term. "And this must e your son, Dudley?"
Dudley had that moment peered round the living room door, his large, lond head rising out of the stripy collar of his pajamas looked oddly disemodied, his mouth gaping in astonishment and I car. Dumledore waited a moment or two, apparently to see whether any of the Dursleys were going to say anything, ut as the •.ilcncc stretched on he smiled.
"Shall we assume that you have invited me into your sitting room?"
Dudley scramled out of the way as Dumledore passed him. I lurry, still clutching the telescope and trainers, jumped the last lew stairs and followed Dumledore, who had settled himself in i he armchair nearest the fire and was taking in the surroundings wilh an expression of enign interest. He looked quite extraordinarily out of place.
"Arent --- arent we leaving, sir?" Harry asked anxiously.
"Yes, indeed we are, ut there are a few matters we need to dis-i us.s first," said Dumledore. "And I would prefer not to do so in (he open. We shall trespass upon your aunt and uncles hospitality only a little longer."
"You will, will you?"
Vernon Dursley had entered the room, Petunia at his shoulder, iind Dudley skulking ehind them oth.
"Yes," said Dumledore simply, "I shall."
He drew his wand so rapidly that Harry arely saw it; with a casual flick, the sofa zoomed forward and knocked the knees out from under all three of the Dursleys so that they collapsed upon it in a heap. Another flick of the wand and the sofa zoomed ack to its original position.
"We may as well e comfortale," said Dumledore pleasantly.
As he replaced his wand in his pocket, Harry saw that his hand was lackened and shriveled; it looked as though his flesh had een urned away. 
"Sir -- what happened to your -- ?"
"Later, Harry," said Dumledore. "Please sit down."
Harry took the remaining armchair, choosing not to look at the Dursleys, who seemed stunned into silence.
"I would assume that you were going to offer me refreshment," Dumledore said to Uncle Vernon, "ut the evidence so far suggests that that would e optimistic to the point of foolishness."
A third twitch of the wand, and a dusty ottle and five glasses appeared in midair. The ottle tipped and poured a generous measure of honey-colored liquid into each of the glasses, which then floated to each person in the room.
"Madam Rosmertas finest oak-matured mead," said Dumledore, raising his glass to Harry, who caught hold of his own and sipped. He had never tasted anything like it efore, ut enjoyed it immensely. The Dursleys, after quick, scared looks at one another, tried to ignore their glasses completely, a difficult feat, as they were nudging them gently on the sides of their heads. Harry could not suppress a suspicion that Dumledore was rather enjoying himself.
"Well, Harry," said Dumledore, turning toward him, "a difficulty has arisen which I hope you will e ale to solve for us. By us, I mean the Order of the Phoenix. But first of all I must tell you that Siriuss will was discovered a week ago and that he left you every-ihing he owned."
Over on the sofa, Uncle Vernons head turned, ut Harry did not look at him, nor could he think of anything to say except, "Oh. Right."
"This is, in the main, fairly straightforward," Dumledore went on. "You add a reasonale amount of gold to your account at (iringotts, and you inherit all of Siriuss personal possessions. The slightly prolematic part of the legacy --"
"His godfathers dead?" said Uncle Vernon loudly from the sofa. 1 )umledore and Harry oth turned to look at him. The glass of mead was now knocking quite insistently on the side of Vernons head; he attempted to eat it away. "Hes dead? His godfather?"
"Yes," said Dumledore. He did not ask Harry why he had not confided in the Dursleys. "Our prolem," he continued to Harry, as if there had een no interruption, "is that Sirius also left you numer twelve, Grimmauld Place."
"Hes een left a house?" said Uncle Vernon greedily, his small eyes narrowing, ut noody answered him.
"You can keep using it as headquarters," said Harry. "I dont care. You can have it, I dont really want it." Harry never wanted to set foot in numer twelve, Grimmauld Place again if he could help it. He thought he would e haunted forever y the memory of Sirius prowling its dark musty rooms alone, imprisoned within the place he had wanted so desperately to leave.
"That is generous," said Dumledore. "We have, however, vacated the uilding temporarily."
"Why?"
"Well," said Dumledore, ignoring the mutterings of Uncle Vernon, who was now eing rapped smartly over the head y the persistent glass of mead, "Black family tradition decreed that the house was handed down the direct line, to the next male with the name of Black. Sirius was the very last of the
line as his younger rother, Regulus, predeceased him and oth were childless. While his will makes it perfectly plain that he wants you to have the house, it is nevertheless possile that some spell or enchantment has een set upon the place to ensure that it cannot e owned y anyone other than a purelood."
A vivid image of the shrieking, spitting portrait of Siriuss mother that hung in the hall of numer twelve, Grimmauld Place flashed into Harrys mind. "I et there has," he said.
"Quite," said Dumledore. "And if such an enchantment exists, then the ownership of the house is most likely to pass to the eldest of Siriuss living relatives, which would mean his cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange."
Without realizing what he was doing, Harry sprang to his feet; the telescope and trainers in his lap rolled across the floor. Bellatrix Lestrange, Siriuss killer, inherit his house?
"No," he said.
"Well, oviously we would prefer that she didnt get it either," said Dumledore calmly. "The situation is fraught with complications. We do not know whether the enchantments we ourselves have placed upon it, for example, making it Unplottale, will hold now that ownership has passed from Siriuss hands. It might e that Bellatrix will arrive on the doorstep at any moment. Naturally we had to move out until such time as we have clarified the position,"
"But how are you going to find out if Im allowed to own it?"
"Fortunately," said Dumledore, "there is a simple test."
He placed his empty glass on a small tale eside his chair, ut efore he could do anything else, Uncle Vernon shouted, "Will you get these ruddy things off us?"
Harry looked around; all three of the Dursleys were cowering with their arms over their heads as their glasses ounced up and down on their skulls, their contents flying everywhere.
"Oh, Im so sorry," said Dumledore politely, and he raised his wand again. All three glasses vanished. "But it would have een etter manners to drink it, you know."
It looked as though Uncle Vernon was ursting with any numer of unpleasant retorts, ut he merely shrank ack into the cushions with Aunt Petunia and Dudley and said nothing, keeping his small piggy eyes on Dumledores wand.
"You see," Dumledore said, turning ack to Harry and again speaking as though Uncle Vernon had not uttered, "if you have indeed inherited the house, you have also inherited --"
He flicked his wand for a fifth time. There was a loud crack, and a house-elf appeared, with a snout for a nose, giant ats ears, and enormous loodshot eyes, crouching on the Dursleys shag carpet and covered in grimy rags. Aunt Petunia let out a hair-raising shriek; nothing this filthy had entered her house in living memory. Dudley drew his large, are, pink feet off the floor and sat with them raised almost aove his head, as though he thought the creature might run up his pajama trousers, and Uncle Vernon ellowed, "What the hell is that?"
"Kreacher," finished Dumledore.
"Kreacher won’t, Kreacher wont, Kreacher won’t!" croaked the house-elf, quite as loudly as Uncle Vernon, stamping his long, gnarled feet and pulling lii.s ears. "Kreacher elongs to Miss Bellatrix, oh yes, Kreacher elongs to the Blacks, Kreacher wants his new mistress, Kreacher wont go to the Potter rat, Kreacher wont, wont, won’t --"
"As you can see, Harry," said Dumledore loudly, over Kreachers continued croaks of "wont, wont, wont," "Kreacher is showing a certain reluctance to pass into your ownership."
"I dont care," said Harry again, looking with disgust at the writhing, stamping house-elf. "I dont want him."
"Wont, won’t, wont, wont --"
"You would prefer him to pass into the ownership of Bellatrix Lestrange? Bearing in mind that he has lived at the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix for the past year?"
"Wont, wont, won’t, wont --"
Harry stared at Dumledore. He knew that Kreacher could not e permitted to go and live with Bellatrix Lestrange, ut the idea of owning him, of having responsiility for the creature that had etrayed Sirius, was repugnant.
"Give him an order," said Dumledore. "If he has passed into your ownership, he will have to oey. If not, then we shall have to think of some other means of keeping him from his rightful mistress."
"Wont, wont, won’t, WONT!"
Kreachers voice had risen to a scream. Harry could think of nothing to say, except, "Kreacher, shut up!"
It looked for a moment as though Kreacher was going to choke. He graed his throat, his mouth still working furiously, his eyes ulging. After a few seconds of frantic gulping, he threw himself face forward onto the carpet (Aunt Petunia whimpered) and eat the floor with his hands and feet, giving himself over to a violent, ut entirely silent, tantrum.
"Well, that simplifies matters," said Dumledore cheerfully. "It means that Sirius knew what he was doing. You are the rightful owner of numer twelve, Grimmauld Place and of Kreacher."
"Do I -- do I have to keep him with me?" Harry asked, aghast, us Kreacher thrashed around at his feet.
"Not if you dont want to," said Dumledore. "If I might make ii suggestion, you could send him to Hogwarts to work in the kitchen there. In that way, the other house-elves could keep an eye on him."
"Yeah," said Harry in relief, "yeah, Ill do that. Er -- Kreacher -- I want you to go to Hogwarts and work in the kitchens there with the other house-elves."
Kreacher, who was now lying flat on his ack with his arms and legs in the air, gave Harry one upside-down look of deepest loathing and, with another loud crack, vanished.
"Good," said Dumledore. "There is also the matter of the hip-pogriff, Buckeak. Hagrid has een looking after him since Sirius died, ut Buckeak is yours now, so if you would prefer to make different arrangements --"
"No," said Harry at once, "he can stay with Hagrid. I think Buckeak would prefer that."
"Hagrid will e delighted," said Dumledore, smiling. "He was thrilled to see Buckeak again. Incidentally, we have decided, in the interests of Buckeaks safety, to rechristen him Witherwings for the time eing, though I dout that the Ministry would ever guess he is the hippogriff they once sentenced to death. Now, Harry, is your trunk packed?"
Erm...
"Doutful that I would turn up?" Dumledore suggested shrewdly.
"Ill just go and -- er -- finish off," said Harry hastily, hurrying to pick up his fallen telescope and trainers.
It took him a little over ten minutes to track down everything he needed; at last he had managed to extract his Invisiility Cloak from under the ed, screwed the top ack on his jar of color-change ink, and forced the lid of his trunk shut on his cauldron. Then, heaving his trunk in one hand and holding Hedwigs cage in the other, he made his way ack downstairs,
He was disappointed to discover that Dumledore was not waiting in the hall, which meant that he had to return to the living room.
Noody was talking. Dumledore was humming quietly, apparently quite at his ease, ut the atmosphere was thicker than cold custard, and Harry did not dare look at the Dursleys as he said, "Professor -- Im ready now."
"Good," said Dumledore. "Just one last thing, then." And he turned to speak to the Dursleys once more.
"As you will no dout e aware, Harry comes of age in a years time --"
"No," said Aunt Petunia, speaking for the first time since Dumledores arrival.
"Im sorry?" said Dumledore politely.
"No, he doesnt. Hes a month younger than Dudley, and Dudders doesnt turn eighteen until the year after next."
"Ah," said Dumledore pleasantly, "ut in the Wizarding world, we come of age at seventeen."
Uncle Vernoii muttered, "Preposterous," ut Dumledore ignored him,
"Now, as you already know, the wizard called Lord Voldemort Was returned to this country. The Wizarding community is currently in a state of open warfare. Harry, whom Lord Voldemort has already attempted to kill on a numer of occasions, is in even greater danger now than the day when I left him upon your doorstep fifteen years ago, with a letter explaining aout his parents murder and expressing the hope that you would care for him ;is though he were your own."
Dumledore paused, and although his voice remained light and calm, and he gave no ovious sign of anger, Harry felt a kind of chill emanating from him and noticed that the Dursleys drew very slightly closer together.
"You did not do as I asked. You have never treated Harry as a son. He has known nothing ut neglect and often cruelty at your hands. The est that can e said is that he has at least escaped the appalling damage you have inflicted upon the unfortunate oy sitting etween you."
Both Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon looked around instinc-lively, as though expecting to see someone other than Dudley squeezed etween them.
"Us -- mistreat Dudders? What dyou -- ?" egan Uncle Vernon furiously, ut Dumledore raised his ringer for silence, a silence which fell as though he had struck Uncle Vernon dum.
"The magic I evoked fifteen years ago means that Harry has powerful protection while he can still call this house home. However miserale he has een here, however unwelcome, however adly treated, you have at least, grudgingly, allowed him houseroom. This magic will cease to operate the moment that Harry turns seventeen; in other words, at the moment he ecomes a man. I ask only this: that you allow Harry to return, once more, to this house, efore his seventeenth irthday, which will ensure that the protection continues until that time."
None of the Dursleys said anything. Dudley was frowning slightly, as though he was still trying to work out when he had ever een mistreated.
Uncle Vernon looked as though he had something stuck in his throat; Aunt Petunia, however, was oddly flushed.
"Well, Harry... time for us to e off," said Dumledore at last, standing up and straightening his long lack cloak. "Until we meet again," he said to the Dursleys, who looked as though that moment could wait forever as far as they were concerned, and after doffing his hat, he swept from the room.
"Bye," said Harry hastily to the Dursleys, and followed Dumledore, who paused eside Harrys trunk, upon which Hedwigs cage was perched.
"We do not want to e encumered y these just now," he said, pulling out his wand again. "I shall send them to the Burrow to await us there. However, I would like you to ring your Invisiility Cloak... just in case."
Harry extracted his cloak from his trunk with some difficulty, trying not to show Dumledore the mess within. When he had stuffed it into an inside pocket of his jacket, Dumiedore waved his wand and the trunk, cage, and Hedwig vanished. Dumledore then waved his wand again, and the front door opened onto cool, misty darkness.
"And now, Harry, let us step out into the night and pursue that flighty temptress, adventure."
Chapter 4: Horace Slughorn
Despite the fact that he had spent every waking moment of the past few days hoping desperately that Dumledore would indeed come to fetch him, Harry felt distinctly awkward as they set off down Privet Drive together. He had never had a proper conversation with the headmaster outside of Hogwarts efore; there was usually a desk etween them. The memory of their last face-to-face encounter kept intruding too, and it rather heightened Harrys sense of emarrassment; he had shouted a lot on that occasion, not to mention done his est to smash several of Dumledores most prized possessions.
Dumledore, however, seemed completely relaxed.
"Keep your wand at the ready, Harry," he said rightly.
"But I thought Im not allowed to use magic outside school, sir?"
"If there is an attack," said Dumledore, "I give you permission to use any counterjinx or curse that might occur to you. However, I do not think you need worry aout eing attacked tonight."
"Why not, sir?"
"You are with me," said Dumledore simply. "This will do, Harry."
He came to an arupt halt at the end of Privet Drive.
"You have not, of course, passed your Apparition Test," he said.
"No," said Harry. "I thought you had to e seventeen?"
"You do," said Dumledore. "So you will need to hold on to my arm very tightly. My left, if you dont mind -- as you have noticed, my wand arm is a little fragile at the moment."
Harry gripped Dumledore’s proffered forearm.
"Very good," said Dumledore. "Well, here we go."
Harry felt Dumledore’s arm twist away from him and redouled his grip; the next thing he knew, everything went lack; he was eing pressed very hard from all directions; he could not reathe, there were iron ands tightening around his chest; his eyealls were eing forced ack into his head; his eardrums were eing pushed deeper into his skull and then ---
He gulped great lungfulls of cold night air and opened his streaming eyes. He felt as though he had just een forced through a very tight ruer tue. It was a few seconds efore he realized that Privet Drive had vanished. He and Dumledore were now standing in what appeared to e a deserted village square, in the center of which stood an old war memorial and a few enches. His comprehension catching up with his senses, Harry realized that he had just Apparated for the first time in his life.
"Are you all right?" asked Dumledore, looking down at him solicitously. "The sensation does take some getting used to."
"Im fine," said Harry, ruing his ears, which felt as though they had left Privet Drive rather reluctantly. "But I think I might prefer rooms..."
Dumledore smiled, drew his traveling cloak a little more lightly around his neck, and said, "This way."
He set off at a risk pace, past an empty inn and a few houses. According to a clock on a neary church, it was almost midnight.
"So tell me, Harry," said Dumledore. "Your scar... has it een hurting at all?"
Harry raised a hand unconsciously to his forehead and rued i he lightning-shaped mark.
"No," he said, "and Ive een wondering aout that. I thought it would e urning all the time now Voldemorts getting so powerful again."
He glanced up at Dumledore and saw that he was wearing a satisfied expression.
"I, on the other hand, thought otherwise," said Dumledore. "Lord Voldemort has finally realized the dangerous access to his thoughts and
feelings you have een enjoying. It appears that he is now employing Occlumency against you."
"Well, Im not complaining," said Harry, who missed neither the disturing dreams nor the startling flashes of insight into Voldemorts mind.
They turned a corner, passing a telephone ox and a us shelter. Harry looked sideways at Dumledore again. "Professor?"
"Harry?"
"Er -- where exactly are we?"
"This, Harry, is the charming village of Budleigh Baerton."
"And what are we doing here?"
"Ah yes, of course, I havent told you," said Dumledore. "Well, I have lost count of the numer of times I have said this in recent years, ut we are, once again, one memer of staff short. We are here to persuade an old colleague of mine to come out of retirement and return to Hogwarts."
"How can I help with that, sir?"
"Oh, I think well find a use for you," said Dumledore vaguely. "Left here, Harry."
They proceeded up a steep, narrow street lined with houses. All the windows were dark. The odd chill that had lain over Privet Drive for two weeks persisted here too. Thinking of dementors, Harry cast a look over his shoulder and grasped his wand reassuringly in his pocket.
"Professor, why couldnt we just Apparate directly into your old colleagues house?"
"Because it would e quite as rude as kicking down the front door," said Dumledore. "Courtesy dictates that we offer fellow wizards the opportunity of denying us entry. In any case, most Wizarding dwellings are magically protected from unwanted Apparators. At Hogwarts, for instance --"
"-- you cant Apparate anywhere inside the uildings or grounds," said Harry quickly. "Hermione Granger told me."
"And she is quite right. We turn left again."
The church clock chimed midnight ehind them. Harry wondered why Dumledore did not consider it rude to call on his old colleague so late, ut now that conversation had een estalished, he had more pressing questions to ask.
"Sir, I saw in the Daily Prophet that Fudge has een sacked..."
"Correct," said Dumledore, now turning up a steep side street. "He has een replaced, as ] am sure you also saw, y Rufus Scrimgeour, who used to e Head of the Auror office."
"Is he... Do you think hes good?" asked Harry.
"An interesting question," said Dumledore. "He is ale, certainly. A more decisive and forceful personality than Cornelius."
"Yes, ut I meant --"
"I know what you meant. Rufus is a man of action and, having fought Dark wizards for most of his working life, does not under-estimate Lord Voldemort."
Harry waited, ut Dumledore did not say anything aout the disagreement with Scrimgeour that the Daily Prophet had reported, and he did not have the nerve to pursue the suject, so he changed ii. "And... sir... I saw aout Madam Bones."
"Yes," said Dumledore quietly. "A terrile loss. She was a great witch. Just up here, I think -- ouch."
He had pointed with his injured hand.
"Professor, what happened to your ... ?"
"I have no time to explain now," said Dumledore. "It is a thrilling tale, I wish to do it justice."
He smiled at Harry, who understood that he was not eing snued, and that he had permission to keep asking questions.
"Sir -- I got a Ministry of Magic leaflet y owl, aout security measures we should all take against the Death Eaters..."
"Yes, I received one myself," said Dumledore, still smiling. "Did you find it useful?"
"Not really."
"No, I thought not. You have not asked me, for instance, what is my favorite flavor of jam, to check that I am indeed Professor Dumledore and not an impostor."
"I didnt..." Harry egan, not entirely sure whether he was eing reprimanded or not.
"For future reference, Harry, it is rasperry... although of course, if I were a Death Eater, I would have een sure to research my own jam preferences efore impersonating myself."
"Er... right," said Harry. "Well, on that leaflet, it said something aout Inferi. What exactly are they? The leaflet wasnt very clear."
"They are corpses," said Dumledore calmly. "Dead odies that have een ewitched to do a Dark wizards idding. Inferi have not een seen for a long time, however, not since Voldemort was last powerful... He killed enough people to make an army of them, of course. This is the place, Harry, just here..."
They were nearing a small, neat stone house set in its own garden. Harry was too usy digesting the horrile idea of Inferi to have much attention left for anything else, ut as they reached the front gate, Dumledore stopped dead and Harry walked into him.
"Oh dear. Oh dear, dear, dear."
Harry followed his gaze up the carefully tended front path and felt his heart sink. The front door was hanging off its hinges.
Dumledore glanced up and down the street. It seemed quite deserted.
"Wand out and follow me, Harry," he said quietly.
He opened the gate and walked swiftly and silently up the garden path, Harry at his heels, then pushed the front door very slowly, his wand raised and at the ready.
"Lumos."
Dumledores wand tip ignited, casting its light up a narrow hallway. To the left, another door stood open. Holding his illuminated wand aloft, Dumledore walked into the sitting room with Harry right ehind him.
A scene of total devastation met their eyes. A grandfather clock lay splintered at their feet, its face cracked, its pendulum lying a little farther away like a dropped sword. A piano was on its side, its keys strewn across the floor. The wreckage of a fallen chandelier flittered neary. Cushions lay deflated, feathers oozing from slashes in their sides; fragments of glass and china lay like powder over everything. Dumledore raised his wand even higher, so that its light was thrown upon the walls, where something darkly red and glutinous was spattered over the wallpaper. Harrys small intake of reath made Dumledore look around.
"Not pretty, is it?" he said heavily. "Yes, something horrile has happened here."
Dumledore moved carefully into the middle of the room, scrutinizing the wreckage at his feet. Harry followed, gazing around, half-scared of what he might see hidden ehind the wreck of the piano or the overturned sofa, ut there was no sign of a ody.
"Maye there was a fight and -- and they dragged him off, Professor?" Harry suggested, trying not to imagine how adly wounded a man would have to e to leave those stains spattered halfway up the walls.
"I dont think so," said Dumledore quietly, peering ehind an overstuffed armchair lying on its side.
"You mean hes -- ?"
"Still here somewhere? Yes."
And without warning, Dumledore swooped, plunging the tip of his wand into the seat of the overstuffed armchair, which yelled, "Ouch!"
"Good evening, Horace," said Dumledore, straightening up again.
Harrys jaw dropped. Where a split second efore there had een an armchair, there now crouched an enormously fat, ald, old man who was massaging his lower elly and squinting up at Dumledore with an aggrieved and watery eye.
"There was no need to stick the wand in that hard," he said gruffly, clamering to his feet. "It hurt."
The wandlight sparkled on his shiny pate, his prominent eyes, his enormous, silver, walruslike mustache, and the highly polished uttons on the maroon velvet jacket he was wearing over a pair of lilac silk pajamas. The top of his head arely reached Dumledores chin.
"What gave it away?" he grunted as he staggered to his feet, still ruing his lower elly. He seemed remarkaly unaashed for a man who had just een discovered pretending to e an armchair.
"My dear Horace," said Dumledore, looking amused, "if the Death Eaters really had come to call, the Dark Mark would have een set over the house."
The wizard clapped a pudgy hand to his vast forehead.
"The Dark Mark," he muttered. "Knew there was something... ah well. Wouldnt have had time anyway, Id only just put the finishing touches to my upholstery when you entered the room."
He heaved a great sigh that made the ends of his mustache flutter.
"Would you like my assistance clearing up?" asked Dumledore politely.
"Please," said the other.
They stood ack to ack, the tall thin wizard and the short round one, and waved their wands in one identical sweeping motion.
The furniture flew ack to its original places; ornaments re-lormed in midair, feathers zoomed into their cushions; torn ooks repaired themselves as they landed upon their shelves; oil lanterns soared onto side tales and reignited; avast collection of splintered silver picture frames flew glittering
across the room and alighted, whole and untarnished, upon a desk; rips, cracks, and holes healed everywhere, and the walls wiped themselves clean.
"What kind of lood was that, incidentally?" asked Dumledore loudly over the chiming of the newly unsmashed grandfather flock.
"On the walls? Dragon," shouted the wizard called Horace, as, with a deafening grinding and tinkling, the chandelier screwed itself ack into the ceiling.
There was a final plunk from the piano, and silence.
"Yes, dragon," repeated the wizard conversationally. "My last ottle, and prices are sky-high at the moment. Still, it might e reusale."
He stumped over to a small crystal ottle standing on top of a sideoard and held it up to the light, examining the thick liquid within.
"Hmm. Bit dusty."
He set the ottle ack on the sideoard and sighed. It was then that his gaze fell upon Harry.
"Oho," he said, his large round eyes flying to Harrys forehead and the lightning-shaped scar it ore. "Oho!"
"This," said Dumledore, moving forward to make the introduction, "is Harry Potter. Harry, this is an old Friend and colleague of mine, Horace Slughorn."
Slughorn turned on Dumledore, his expression shrewd. "So thats how you thought youd persuade me, is it? Well, the answers no, Alus."
He pushed past Harry, his face turned resolutely away with the air of a man trying to resist temptation.
"I suppose we can have a drink, at least?" asked Dumledore. "For old times sake?"
Slughorn hesitated.
"All right then, one drink," he said ungraciously.
Dumledore smiled at Harry and directed him toward a chair not unlike the one that Slughorn had so recently impersonated, which stood right eside the newly urning fire and a rightly glowing oil lamp. Harry took the seat with the distinct impression that Dumledore, for some reason, wanted to keep him as visile as possile. Certainly when Slughorn, who had een usy with decanters and glasses, turned to face the room again, his eyes fell immediately upon Harry.
"Hmpf," he said, looking away quickly as though frightened of hurting his eyes. "Here --" He gave a drink to Dumledore, who had sat down without
invitation, thrust the tray at Harry, and then sank into the cushions of the repaired sofa and a disgruntled silence. His legs were so short they did not touch the floor.
"Well, how have you een keeping, Horace?" Dumledore asked.
"Not so well," said Slughorn at once. "Weak chest. Wheezy. Rheumatism too. Cant move like I used to. Well, thats to e expected. Old age. Fatigue."
"And yet you must have moved fairly quickly to prepare such a welcome for us at such short notice," said Dumledore. "You cant have had more than three minutes warning?"
Slughorn said, half irritaly, half proudly, "Two. Didnt hear my Intruder Charm go off, I was taking a ath. Still," he added sternly, seeming to pull himself ack together again, "the fact remains that Im an old man, Alus. A tired old man whos earned the right to a quiet life and a few creature comforts."
He certainly had those, thought Harry, looking around the room. It was stuffy and cluttered, yet noody could say it was uncomfortale; there were soft chairs and footstools, drinks and ooks, oxes of chocolates and plump cushions. If Harry had not known who lived there, he would have guessed at a rich, fussy old lady.
"Youre not yet as old as I am, Horace," said Dumledore.
"Well, maye you ought to think aout retirement yourself," said Slughorn luntly. His pale gooseerry eyes had found Dumledores injured hand. "Reactions not what they were, I see."
"Youre quite right," said Dumledore serenely, shaking ack his sleeve to reveal the tips of those urned and lackened ringers; the sight of them made the ack of Harrys neck prickle unpleasantly. "1 am undoutedly slower than I was. But on the other hand..."
He shrugged and spread his hands wide, as though to say that age had its compensations, and Harry noticed a ring on his uninjured hand that he had never seen Dumledore wear efore: It was large, rather clumsily made of what looked like gold, and was set with a heavy lack stone that had cracked down the middle. Slughorns eyes lingered for a moment on the ring too, and Harry saw a tiny frown momentarily crease his wide forehead.
"So, all these precautions against intruders, Horace... are they for the Death Eaters enefit, or mine?" asked Dumledore.
"What would the Death Eaters want with a poor roken-down old uffer like me?" demanded Slughorn.
"I imagine that they would want you to turn your considerale talents to coercion, torture, and murder," said Dumledore. "Are you really telling me that they havent come recruiting yet?"
Slughorn eyed Dumledore alefully for a moment, then muttered, "I havent given them the chance. Ive een on the move for a year. Never stay in one place more than a week. Move from Mug-gle house to Muggle house -- the owners of this place are on holiday in the Canary Islands -- its een very pleasant, Ill e sorry to leave. Its quite easy once you know how, one simple Freezing Charm on these asurd urglar alarms they use instead of Sneako-scopes and make sure the neighors dont spot you ringing in the piano."
"Ingenious," said Dumledore. "But it sounds a rather tiring existence for a roken-down old uffer in search of a quiet life. Now, if you were to return to Hogwarts --"
"If youre going to tell me my life would e more peaceful at that pestilential school, you can save your reath, Alus! I might have een in hiding, ut some funny rumors have reached me since Dolores Umridge left! If thats how you treat teachers these days --"
"Professor Umridge ran afoul of our centaur herd," said Dumledore. "I think you, Horace, would have known etter than to stride into the forest and call a horde of angry centaurs filthy half-reeds."
"Thats what she did, did she?" said Slughorn. "Idiotic woman. Never liked her."
Harry chuckled and oth Dumledore and Slughorn looked round at him.
"Sorry," Harry said hastily. "Its just -- I didnt like her either."
Dumledore stood up rather suddenly.
"Are you leaving?" asked Slughorn at once, looking hopeful.
"No, I was wondering whether I might use your athroom," said Dumledore.
"Oh," said Slughorn, clearly disappointed. "Second on the left down the hall."
Dumledore strode from the room. Once the door had closed ehind him, there was silence. After a few moments, Slughorn got to his feet ut seemed uncertain what to do with himself. He shot a furtive look at Harry, then crossed to the fire and turned his ack on it, warming his wide ehind.
"Dont think I dont know why hes rought you," he said aruptly.
Harry merely looked at Slughorn. Slughorns watery eyes slid over Harrys scar, this time taking in the rest of his face.
"You look very like your father."
"Yeah, Ive een told," said Harry.
"Except for your eyes. Youve got ---"
"My mothers eyes, yeah." Harry had heard it so often he found it a it wearing.
"Hmpf. Yes, well. You shouldnt have favorites as a teacher, of course, ut she was one of mine. Your mother," Slughorn added, in answer to Harrys questioning look. "Lily Evans. One of the rightest I ever taught. Vivacious, you know. Charming girl. I used to tell her she ought to have een in my House. Very cheeky answers I used to get ack too."
"Which was your House?"
"I was Head of Slytherin," said Slughorn. "Oh, now," he went on quickly, seeing the expression on Harrys face and wagging a stuy ringer at him, "dont go holding that against me! Youll e Gryffindor like her, I suppose? Yes, it usually goes in families. Not always, though. Ever heard of Sirius Black? You must have done -- een in the papers for the last couple of years -- died a few weeks ago --"
It was as though an invisile hand had twisted Harrys intestines and held them tight.
"Well, anyway, he was a ig pal of your fathers at school. The whole Black family had een in my House, ut Sirius ended up in Gryffindor! Shame -- he was a talented oy. I got his rother, Regulus, when he came along, ut Id have liked the set."
He sounded like an enthusiastic collector who had een outid at auction. Apparently lost in memories, he gazed at the opposite wall, turning idly on the spot to ensure an even heat on his ackside.
"Your mother was Muggle-orn, of course. Couldnt elieve it when I found out. Thought she must have een pure-lood, she was so good."
"One of my est friends is Muggle-orn," said Harry, "and shes the est in our year."
"Funny how that sometimes happens, isnt it?" said Slughorn.
"Not really," said Harry coldly.
Slughorn looked down at him in surprise. "You mustnt think Im prejudiced!" he said. "No, no, no! Havent I just said your mother was one of my all-time favorite students? And there was Dirk Cresswell in the year after her too -- now Head of the Golin Liaison Office, of course -- another Muggle-orn, a very gifted student, and still gives me excellent inside information on the goings-on at Gringotts!"
He ounced up and down a little, smiling in a self-satisfied way, and pointed at the many glittering photograph frames on the dresser, each peopled with tiny moving occupants.
"All ex-students, all signed. Youll notice Barnaas Cuffe, editor of the Daily Prophet, hes always interested to hear my take on the days news. And
Amrosius Flume, of Honeydukes -- a hamper every irthday, and all ecause I was ale to give him an introduction to Ciceron Harkisss who gave him his first jo! And at the ack -- youll see her if you just crane your neck -- thats Gwenog Jones, who of course captains the Holyhead Harpies... People are always astonished to hear Im on first-name terms with the Harpies, and free tickets whenever I want them!"
This thought seemed to cheer him up enormously.
"And all these people know where to find you, to send you stuff?" asked Harry, who could not help wondering why the Death Eaters had not yet tracked down Slughorn if hampers of sweets, Quidditch tickets, and visitors craving his advice and opinions could find him.
The smile slid from Slughorns face as quickly as the lood from his walls.
"Of course not," he said, looking down at Harry. "I have een out of touch with everyody for a year."
Harry had the impression that the words shocked Slughorn himself; he looked quite unsettled for a moment. Then he shrugged.
"Still... the prudent wizard keeps his head down in such times. All very well for Dumledore to talk, ut taking up a post at Hog-warts just now would e tantamount to declaring my pulic allegiance to the Order of the
Phoenix! And while Im sure theyre very admirale and rave and all the rest of it, I dont personally fancy the mortality rate --"
"You dont have to join the Order to teach at Hogwarts," said Harry, who could not quite keep a note of derision out of his voice: It was hard to sympathize with Slughorns cosseted existence when he rememered Sirius, crouching in a cave and living on rats. "Most of the teachers arent in it, and none of them has ever een killed -- well, unless you count Quirrell, and he got what he deserved seeing as he was working with Voldemort."
Harry had een sure Slughorn would e one of those wizards who could not ear to hear Voldemorts name spoken aloud, and was not disappointed: Slughorn gave a shudder and a squawk of protest, which Harry ignored.
"I reckon the staff are safer than most people while Dumle-dores headmaster; hes supposed to e the only one Voldemort ever feared, isnt he?" Harry went on.
Slughorn gazed into space for a moment or two: He seemed to e thinking over Harrys words.
"Well, yes, it is true that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has never sought a fight with Dumledore," he muttered grudgingly. "And I suppose one could argue that as I have not joined the Death Kilters, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named can hardly count me a friend... in which case, I might well e safer a little closer to Alus... I cannot pretend that Amelia Boness death did not shake me... If she, with all her Ministry contacts and protection..."
Dumledore reentered the room and Slughorn jumped as though he had forgotten he was in the house.
"Oh, there you are, Alus," he said. "Youve een a very long lime. Upset stomach?"
"No, I was merely reading the Muggle magazines," said Dumledore. "I do love knitting patterns. Well, Harry, we have trespassed upon Horaces hospitality quite long enough; I think it is time for us to leave."
Not at all reluctant to oey, Harry jumped to his feet. Slughorn sinned taken aack.
"Youre leaving?"
"Yes, indeed. I think I know a lost cause when I see one."
"Lost...?"
Slughorn seemed agitated. He twiddled his fat thums and fidgeted as he watched Dumledore fasten his traveling cloak, and Harry zip up his jacket.
"Well, Im sorry you dont want the jo, Horace," said Dumledore, raising his uninjured hand in a farewell salute. "Hogwarts would have een glad to see you ack again. Our greatly increased security notwithstanding, you will always e welcome to visit, should you wish to."
"Yes... well... very gracious... as I say..."
"Good-ye, then."
"Bye," said Harry.
They were at the front door when there was a shout from ehind them.
"All right, all right, Ill do it!"
Dumledore turned to see Slughorn standing reathless in the doorway to the sitting room.
"You will come out of retirement?"
"Yes, yes," said Slughorn impatiently. "I must e mad, ut yes."
"Wonderful," said Dumledore, eaming. "Then, Horace, we shall see you on the first of Septemer."
"Yes, I daresay you will," grunted Slughorn.
As they set off down the garden path, Slughorns voice floated after them, "Ill want a pay rise, Dumledore!"
Dumledore chuckled. The garden gate swung shut ehind them, and they set off ack down the hill through the dark and the swirling mist.
"Well done, Harry," said Dumledore.
"I didnt do anything," said Harry in surprise.
"Oh yes you did. You showed Horace exactly how much he stands to gain y returning to Hogwarts. Did you like him?"
"Er..."
Harry wasnt sure whether he liked Slughorn or not. He supposed he had een pleasant in his way, ut he had also seemed vain and, whatever he said to the contrary, much too surprised that a Muggle-orn should make a good witch.
"Horace," said Dumledore, relieving Harry of the responsiility to say any of this, "likes his comfort. He also likes the company of the famous, the successful, and the powerful. He enjoys the feeling that he influences these people. He has never wanted to occupy the throne himself; he prefers the ackseat -- more room to spread out, you see. He used to handpick favorites at Hogwarts, sometimes for their amition or their rains, sometimes for their charm or their talent, and he had an uncanny knack for choosing those who would go on to ecome outstanding in their various fields. Horace formed a kind of clu of his favorites with himself at the center, making introductions, forging useful contacts etween memers, and always reaping
some kind of enefit in return, whether a free ox of his favorite crystallized pineapple or the chance to recommend the next junior memer of the Golin liaison Office."
Harry had a sudden and vivid mental image of a great swollen spider, spinning a we around it, twitching a thread here and there to ring its large and juicy flies a little closer.
"I tell you all this," Dumledore continued, "not to turn you against Horace -- or, as we must now call him, Professor Slughorn -- ut to put you on your guard. He will undoutedly try to collect you, Harry. You would e the jewel of his collection; the Boy Who Lived... or, as they call you these days, the Chosen One."
At these words, a chill that had nothing to do with the surrounding mist stole over Harry. He was reminded of words he had heard a few weeks ago, words that had a horrile and particular meaning to him: Neither can live while the other survives...
Dumledore had stopped walking, level with the church they had passed earlier.
"This will do, Harry. If you will grasp my arm."
Braced this time, Harry was ready for the Apparition, ut still found it unpleasant. When the pressure disappeared and he found himself ale to reathe again, he was standing in a country lane eside Dumledore and
looking ahead to the crooked silhouette of his second favorite uilding in the world: the Burrow. In spite of the feeling of dread that had just swept through him, his spirits could not help ut lift at the sight of it. Ron was in there... and so was Mrs. Weasley, who could cook etter than anyone he knew...
"If you dont mind, Harry," said Dumledore, as they passed through the gate, "Id like a few words with you efore we part. In private. Perhaps in here?"
Dumledore pointed toward a run-down stone outhouse where the Weasleys kept their roomsticks. A little puzzled, Harry followed Dumledore through the creaking door into a space a little smaller than the average cupoard. Dumledore illuminated the tip of his wand, so that it glowed like a torch, and smiled down at Harry.
"I hope you will forgive me for mentioning it, Harry, ut I am pleased and a little proud at how well you seem to e coping after everything that happened at the Ministry. Permit me to say that I think Sirius would have een proud of you."
Harry swallowed; his voice seemed to have deserted him. He did not think he could stand to discuss Sirius; it had een painful enough to hear Uncle Vernon say "His godfathers dead?" and even worse to hear Siriuss name thrown out casually y Slughorn.
"It was cruel," said Dumledore softly, "that you and Sirius had such a short time together. A rutal ending to what should have een a long and happy relationship."
Harry nodded, his eyes fixed resolutely on the spider now climing Dumledores hat. He could tell that Dumledore understood, that he might even suspect that until his letter arrived, Harry had spent nearly all his time at the Dursleys lying on his ed, refusing meals, and staring at the misted window, full of the chill emptiness i hat he had come to associate with dementors.
"Its just hard," Harry said finally, in a low voice, "to realize he wont write to me again."
His eyes urned suddenly and he linked. He felt stupid for admitting it, ut the fact that he had had someone outside Hogwarts who cared what happened to him, almost like a parent, had een one of the est things aout discovering his godfather... and now the post owls would never ring him that comfort again...
"Sirius represented much to you that you had never known efore," said Dumledore gently. "Naturally, the loss is devastat-ing...
"But while I was at the Dursleys..." interrupted Harry, his voice growing stronger, "I realized I cant shut myself away or -- or crack up. Sirius wouldnt have wanted that, would he? And anyway, lifes too short... Look at Madam Bones, look at Emmeline Vance... It could e me next, couldnt it?
But if it is," he said fiercely, now looking straight into Dumledores lue eyes gleaming in the wandlight, "Ill make sure I take as many Death Eaters with me as I can, and Voldemort too if I can manage it."
"Spoken oth like your mother and fathers son and Siriuss true godson!" said Dumledore, with an approving pat on Harrys ack. "I take my hat off to you -- or I would, if I were not afraid of showering you in spiders.
"And now, Harry, on a closely related suject... I gather that you have een taking the Daily Prophet over the last two weeks?"
"Yes," said Harry, and his heart eat a little faster.
"Then you will have seen that there have een not so much leaks as floods concerning your adventure in the Hall of Prophecy?"
"Yes," said Harry again. "And now everyone knows that Im the one --
"No, they do not," interrupted Dumledore. "There are only two people in the whole world who know the full contents of the prophecy made aout you and Lord Voldemort, and they are oth standing in this smelly, spidery room shed. It is true, however, that many have guessed, correctly, that Voldemort sent his Death Eaters to steal a prophecy, and that the prophecy concerned you.
"Now, I think I am correct in saying that you have not told anyody that you know what the prophecy said?"
"No," said Harry.
"A wise decision, on the whole," said Dumledore. "Although I think you ought to relax it in favor of your friends, Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger. Yes," he continued, when Harry looked startled, "I think they ought to know. You do them a disservice y not confiding something this important to them."
"I didnt want --"
"-- to worry or frighten them?" said Dumledore, surveying Harry over the top of his half-moon spectacles. "Or perhaps, to confess that you yourself are worried and frightened? You need your friends, Harry. As you so rightly said, Sirius would not have wanted you to shut yourself away."
Harry said nothing, ut Dumledore did not seem to require an answer. He continued, "On a different, though related, suject, it is my wish that you take private lessons with me this year."
"Private -- with you?" said Harry, surprised out of his preoccupied silence.
"Yes. I think it is time that I took a greater hand in your education."
What will you e teaching me, sir?"
"Oh, a little of this, a little of that," said Dumledore airily.
Harry waited hopefully, ut Dumledore did not elaorate, so ho asked something else that had een othering him slightly.
"If Im having lessons with you, I wont have to do Occlumency lessons with Snape, will I?"
Professor Snape, Harry -- and no, you will not."
"Good," said Harry in relief, "ecause they were a --"
He stopped, careful not to say what he really thought.
"I think the word fiasco would e a good one here," said Dumledore, nodding.
Harry laughed.
"Well, that means I wont see much of Professor Snape from now on," he said, "ecause he wont let me carry on Potions unless I get Outstanding in my OWL., which I know I havent."
"Dont count your owls efore they are delivered," said Dumledore gravely. "Which, now I think of it, ought to e some time later today. Now, two more things, Harry, efore we part.
"Firstly, I wish you to keep your Invisiility Cloak with you at all i imes from this moment onward. Even within Hogwarts itself. Just in case, you understand me?"
Harry nodded.
"And lastly, while you stay here, the Burrow has een given the highest security the Ministry of Magic can provide. These measures have caused a certain amount of inconvenience to Arthur and Molly -- all their post, for instance, is eing searched at the Ministry efore eing sent on. They do not mind in the slightest, for their only concern is your safety. However, it would e poor repayment if you risked your neck while staying with them."
"I understand," said Harry quickly.
"Very well, then," said Dumledore, pushing open the room shed door and stepping out into the yard. "I see a light in the kitchen. Let us not deprive Molly any longer of the chance to deplore how thin you are."
Chapter 5: An Excess Of Phlegm
Harry and Dumledore approached the ack door of the Burrow, which was surrounded y the familiar litter of old Wellington oots and rusty cauldrons; Harry could hear the soft clucking of sleepy chickens coming from a distant shed. Dumledore knocked three times and Harry saw sudden movement ehind the kitchen window.
"Whos there?" said a nervous voice he recognized as Mrs. Weasleys. "Declare yourself!"
"It is I, Dumledore, ringing Harry."
The door opened at once. There stood Mrs. Weasley, short, plump, and wearing an old green dressing gown.
"Harry, dear! Gracious, Alus, you gave me a fright, you said not to expect you efore morning!"
"We were lucky," said Dumledore, ushering Harry over the threshold. "Slughorn proved much more persuadale than I had expected. Harrys doing, of course. Ah, hello, Nymphadora!"
Harry looked around and saw that Mrs. Weasley was not alone, despite the lateness of the hour. A young witch with a pale, heart-shaped face and mousy rown hair was sitting at the tale clutching a large mug etween her hands.
"Hello, Professor," she said. " Wotcher, Harry."
"Hi, Tonks."
Harry thought she looked drawn, even ill, and there was something forced in her smile. Certainly her appearance was less colorful than usual without her customary shade of ule-gum-pink hair.
"Id etter e off," she said quickly, standing up and pulling her cloak around her shoulders. "Thanks for the tea and sympathy, Molly"
"Please dont leave on my account," said Dumledore courteously, "I cannot stay, I have urgent matters to discuss with Rufus Scrimgeour."
"No, no, I need to get going," said Tonks, not meeting Dumledores eyes. "Night..."
"Dear, why not come to dinner at the weekend, Remus and Mad-Eye are coming... ?"
"No, really, Molly... thanks anyway... Good night, every-one.
Tonks hurried past Dumledore and Harry into the yard; a few paces eyond the doorstep, she turned on the spot and vanished into thin air. Harry noticed that Mrs. Weasley looked trouled.
"Well, I shall see you at Hogwarts, Harry," said Dumledore. "Take care of yourself. Molly, your servant."
He made Mrs. Weasley a ow and followed Tonks, vanishing at precisely the same spot. Mrs. Weasley closed the door on the empty yard and then steered Harry y the shoulders into the full glow of the lantern on the tale to examine his appearance.
"Youre like Ron," she sighed, looking him up and down. "Both of you look as though youve had Stretching jinxes put on you. I swear Rons grown four inches since I last ought him school roes. Are you hungry, Harry?"
"Yeah, I am," said Harry, suddenly realizing just how hungry he was,
"Sit down, dear, Ill knock something up."
As Harry sat down, a furry ginger cat with a squashed face lumped onto his knees and settled there, purring.
"So Hermiones here?" he asked happily as he tickled Crookshanks ehind the ears.
"Oh yes, she arrived the day efore yesterday," said Mrs. Weasley, rapping a large iron pot with her wand. It ounced onto the stove with a loud clang and egan to ule at once. "Everyones in ed, of course, we didnt expect you for hours. Here you are..."
She tapped the pot again; it rose into the air, flew toward Harry, and tipped over; Mrs. Weasley slid a owl nearly eneath it just in lime to catch the stream of thick, steaming onion soup.
"Bread, dear?"
"Thanks, Mrs. Weasley."
She waved her wand over her shoulder; a loaf of read and a knife soared gracefully onto the tale; as the loaf sliced itself and the soup pot dropped ack onto the stove, Mrs. Weasley sat down opposite him.
"So you persuaded Horace Slughorn to take the jo?"
Harry nodded, his mouth so full of hot soup that he could not speak.
"He taught Arthur and me," said Mrs. Weasley. "He was at Hog-warts for ages, started around the same time as Dumledore, I think. Did you like him?"
His mouth now full of read, Harry shrugged and gave a noncommittal jerk of the head.
"I know what you mean," said Mrs. Weasley, nodding wisely. "Of course he can e charming when he wants to e, ut Arthurs never liked him much. The Ministrys littered with Slughorns old favorites, he was always good at giving leg ups, ut he never had much time for Arthur... didnt seem to think
he was enough of a highflier. Well, that just shows you, even Slughorn makes mistakes. I dont know whether Rons told you in any of his letters... its only just happened... ut Arthurs een promoted!"
It could not have een clearer that Mrs. Weasley had een ursting to say this.
Harry swallowed a large amount of very hot soup and thought he could feel his throat listering. "Thats great!" he gasped.
"You are sweet," eamed Mrs. Weasley, possily taking his watering eyes for emotion at the news. "Yes, Rufus Scrimgeour has set up several new offices in response to the present situation, and Arthurs heading the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Ojects. Its a ig jo, hes got ten people reporting to him now!"
"What exactly?"
"Well, you see, in all the panic aout You-Know-Who, odd things have een cropping up for sale everywhere, things that are supposed to guard against You-Know-Who and the Death Eaters. You can imagine the kind of thing... so-called protective potions that are really gravy with a it of uotuer pus added, or instructions for defensive jinxes that actually make your ears fall off... Well, in the main the perpetrators are just people like Mundungus Hotelier, whove never done an honest days work in their lives and are taking advantage of how frightened everyody is, ut every now and then something really nasty turns up. The other day Arthur confiscated a ox
of cursed Sneakoscopes that were almost certainly planted y a Death Eater. So you see, its a very important jo, and I tell him its just silly to miss dealing with spark plugs and toasters and all the rest of that Muggle ruish." Mrs. Weasley ended her speech with a stern look, as if it had een Harry suggesting that it was natural to miss spark plugs.
"Is Mr. Weasley still at work?" Harry asked.
"Yes, he is. As a matter of fact, hes a tiny it late... He said hed e ack around midnight..."
She turned to look at a large clock that was perched awkwardly on top of a pile of sheets in the washing asket at the end of the tale. Harry recognized it at once: It had nine hands, each inscried with the name of a family memer, and usually hung on i he Weasleys sitting room wall, though its current position suggested that Mrs. Weasley had taken to carrying it around the house with her. Every single one of its nine hands was now pointing at "mortal peril."
"Its een like that for a while now," said Mrs. Weasley, in an un-convincingly casual voice, "ever since You-Know-Who came ack into the open. I suppose everyodys in mortal danger now... I dont think it can e just our family... ut I dont know anyone else whos got a clock like this, so I cant check. Oh!"
With a sudden exclamation she pointed at the clocks face. Mr. Weasleys hand had switched to "traveling."
"Hes coming!"
And sure enough, a moment later there was a knock on the ack door. Mrs. Weasley jumped up and hurried to it; with one hand on the doorkno and her face pressed against the wood she called softly, "Arthur, is that you?"
"Yes," came Mr. Weasleys weary voice. "But I would say that even if I were a Death Eater, dear. Ask the question!"
"Oh, honestly..."
"Molly!"
"All right, all right... What is your dearest amition?"
"To find out how airplanes stay up."
Mrs. Weasley nodded and turned the doorkno, ut apparently Mr. Weasley was holding tight to it on the other side, ecause the door remained firmly shut.
"Molly! Ive got to ask you your question first!"
"Arthur, really, this is just silly..."
"What do you like me to call you when were alone together?"
Even y the dim light of the lantern Harry could tell that Mrs. Weasley had turned right red; he himself felt suddenly warm around the ears and neck, and hastily gulped soup, clattering his spoon as loudly as he could against the owl.
"Mollywoles," whispered a mortified Mrs. Weasley into the crack at the edge of the door.
"Correct," said Mr. Weasley. "Now you can let me in."
Mrs. Weasley opened the door to reveal her husand, a thin, alding, red-haired wizard wearing horn-rimmed spectacles and a long and dusty traveling cloak.
"I still dont see why we have to go through that every time you come home," said Mrs. Weasley, still pink in the face as she helped her husand out of his cloak. "I mean, a Death Eater might have forced the answer out of you efore impersonating you!"
"I know, dear, ut its Ministry procedure, and I have to set an example. Something smells good... onion soup?"
Mr. Weasley turned hopefully in the direction of the tale.
"Harry! We didnt expect you until morning!"
They shook hands, and Mr. Weasley dropped into the chair eside Harry as Mrs. Weasley set a owl of soup in front of him too.
"Thanks, Molly. Its een a tough night. Some idiots started selling Metamorph-Medals. Just sling them around your neck and youll e ale to change your appearance at will. A hundred thousand disguises, all for ten Galleons!"
"And what really happens when you put them on?"
"Mostly you just turn a fairly unpleasant orange color, ut a couple of people have also sprouted tentacle like warts all over their odies. As if St. Mungos didnt have enough to do already!"
"It sounds like the sort of thing Fred and George would find funny," said Mrs. Weasley hesitantly. "Are you sure... ?"
"Of course I am!" said Mr. Weasley. "The oys wouldnt do anything like that now, not when people are desperate for protection!"
"So is that why youre late, Metamorph-Medals?"
"No, we got wind of a nasty ackfiring jinx down in Elephant and Castle, ut luckily the Magical Law Enforcement Squad had sorted it out y the time we got there..."
Harry stifled a yawn ehind his hand.
"Bed," said an undeceived Mrs. Weasley at once. "Ive got Fred and Georges room all ready for you, youll have it to yourself."
"Why, where are they?"
"Oh, theyre in Diagon Alley, sleeping in the little flat over their joke shop as theyre so usy," said Mrs. Weasley. "I must say, I didnt approve at first, ut they do seem to have a it of a flair for usiness! Come on, dear, your trunks already up there."
"Night, Mr. Weasley," said Harry, pushing ack his chair. Crookshanks leapt lightly from his lap and slunk out of the room.
"Gnight, Harry," said Mr. Weasley.
Harry saw Mrs. Weasley glance at the clock in the washing asket as they left the kitchen. All the hands were once again at "mortal peril."
Fred and Georges edroom was on the second floor. Mrs. Weasley pointed her wand at a lamp on the edside tale and it ignited at once, athing the room in a pleasant golden glow. Though a large vase of flowers had een placed on a desk in front of the small window, their perfume could not disguise the lingering smell of what Harry thought was gunpowder. A considerale amount of floor space was devoted to a vast numer of unmarked, sealed cardoard oxes, amongst which stood Harrys school
trunk. The room looked as though it was eing used as a temporary warehouse.
Hedwig hooted happily at Harry from her perch on top of a large wardroe, then took off through the window; Harry knew she had een waiting to see him efore going hunting. Harry ade Mrs. Weasley good night, put on pajamas, and got into one of the eds. There was something hard inside the pillowcase. He groped inside it and pulled out a sticky purple-and-orange sweet, which he recognized as a Puking Pastille. Smiling to himself, he rolled over and was instantly asleep.
Seconds later, or so it seemed to Harry, he was awakened y what sounded like cannon fire as the door urst open. Sitting olt upright, he heard the rasp of the curtains eing pulled ack: The dazzling sunlight seemed to poke him hard in oth eyes. Shielding them with one hand, he groped hopelessly for his glasses with the other.
"Wuzzgoinon?"
"We didnt know you were here already!" said a loud and excited voice, and he received a sharp low to the top of the head.
"Ron, dont hit him!" said a girls voice reproachfully.
Harrys hand found his glasses and he shoved them on, though I he light was so right he could hardly see anyway. A long, looming shadow quivered
in front of him for a moment; he linked and Ron Weasley came into focus, grinning down at him.
"All right?"
"Never een etter," said Harry, ruing the top of his head and slumping ack onto his pillows. "You?"
"Not ad," said Ron, pulling over a cardoard ox and sitting on it. "When did you get here? Mums only just told us!"
"Aout one oclock this morning."
"Were the Muggles all right? Did they treat you okay?"
"Same as usual," said Harry, as Hermione perched herself on the edge of his ed, "they didnt talk to me much, ut I like it etter that way. Howre you, Hermione?"
"Oh, Im fine," said Hermione, who was scrutinizing Harry as though he was sickening for something. He thought he knew what was ehind this, and as he had no wish to discuss Siriuss death or any other miserale suject at the moment, he said, "Whats the time? Have I missed reakfast?"
"Dont worry aout that, Mums ringing you up a tray; she reckons you look underfed," said Ron, rolling his eyes. "So, whats een going on?"
"Nothing much, Ive just een stuck at my aunt and uncles, havent I?"
"Come off it!" said Ron. "Youve een off with Dumledore!"
"It wasnt that exciting. He just wanted me to help him persuade this old teacher to come out of retirement. His names Horace Slughorn."
"Oh," said Ron, looking disappointed. "We thought..."
Hermione flashed a warning look at Ron, and Ron changed tack at top speed.
"...we thought itd e something like that."
"You did?" said Harry, amused.
"Yeah... yeah, now Umridge has left, oviously we need a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, dont we? So, er, whats he like?"
"He looks a it like a walrus, and he used to e Head of Slytherin," said Harry. "Something wrong, Hermione?"
She was watching him as though expecting strange symptoms to manifest themselves at any moment. She rearranged her features hastily in an unconvincing smile.
"No, of course not! So, um, did Slughorn seem like hell e a good teacher?"
"Dunno," said Harry. "He cant e worse than Umridge, can he?"
"I know someone whos worse than Umridge," said a voice from the doorway. Rons younger sister slouched into the room, looking irritale. "Hi, Harry."
"Whats up with you?" Ron asked.
"Its her," said Ginny, plonking herself down on Harrys ed. "Shes driving me mad."
"Whats she done now?" asked Hermione sympathetically.
"Its the way she talks to me... youd think I was aout three!"
"I know," said Hermione, dropping her voice. "Shes so full of herself."
Harry was astonished to hear Hermione talking aout Mrs. Weasley like this and could not lame Ron for saying angrily, "Cant you two lay off her for five seconds?"
"Oh, thats right, defend her," snapped Ginny. "We all know you cant get enough of her."
This seemed an odd comment to make aout Rons mother. Starting to feel that he was missing something, Harry said, "Who are you... ?"
But his question was answered efore he could finish it. The edroom door flew open again, and Harry instinctively yanked the edcovers up to his chin so hard that Hermione and Ginny slid off the ed onto the floor.
A young woman was standing in the doorway, a woman of such reathtaking eauty that the room seemed to have ecome strangely airless. She was tall and willowy with long londe hair and appeared to emanate a faint, silvery glow. To complete this vision of perfection, she was carrying a heavily laden reakfast tray.
"Arry," she said in a throaty voice. "Eet as een too long!"
As she swept over the threshold toward him, Mrs. Weasley was revealed, oing along in her wake, looking rather cross.
"There was no need to ring up the tray, I was just aout to do it myself!"
"Eet was no troule," said Fleur Delacour, setting the tray across Harrys knees and then swooping to kiss him on each cheek: He felt the places where her mouth had touched him urn. "I ave een longing to see im. You rememer my seester, Garielle? She never stops talking aout Arry Potter. She will e delighted to see you again."
"Oh... is she here too?" Harry croaked.
"No, no, silly oy," said Fleur with a tinkling laugh, "I mean next summer, when we... ut do you not know?"
Her great lue eyes widened and she looked reproachfully at Mrs. Weasley, who said, "We hadnt got around to telling him yet."
Fleur turned ack to Harry, swinging her silvery sheet of hair so that it whipped Mrs. Weasley across the face.
"Bill and I are going to e married!"
"Oh," said Harry lankly. He could not help noticing how Mrs. Weasley, Hermione, and Ginny were all determinedly avoiding one anothers gaze. "Wow. Er... congratulations!"
She swooped down upon him and kissed him again.
"Bill is very usy at ze moment, working very ard, and I only work part-time at Gringotts for my Eenglish, so he rought me ere for a few days to get to know is family properly. I was so pleased to ear you would e coming... zere isnt much to do ere, unless you like cooking and chickens! Well... enjoy your reakfast, Arry!"
With these words she turned gracefully and seemed to float out of the room, closing the door quietly ehind her.
Mrs. Weasley made a noise that sounded like, "tchah!"
"Mum hates her," said Ginny quietly.
"I do not hate her!" said Mrs. Weasley in a cross whisper. "I just think theyve hurried into this engagement, thats all!"
"Theyve known each other a year," said Ron, who looked oddly groggy and was staring at the closed door.
"Well, thats not very long! I know why its happened, of course. Its all this uncertainty with You-Know-Who coming ack, people think they might e dead tomorrow, so theyre rushing all sorts of decisions theyd normally take time over. It was the same last time he was powerful, people eloping left, right, and center..."
"Including you and Dad," said Ginny slyly.
"Yes, well, your father and I were made for each other, what was the point in waiting?" said Mrs. Weasley. "Whereas Bill and Fleur... well... what have they really got in common? Hes a hardworking, down-to-earth sort of person, whereas shes..."
"A cow," said Ginny, nodding. "But Bills not that down-to-earth. Hes a Curse-Breaker, isnt he, he likes a it of adventure, a it of glamour... I expect thats why hes gone for Phlegm."
"Stop calling her that, Ginny," said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Harry and Hermione laughed. "Well, Id etter get on... Eat your eggs while theyre warm, Harry."
Looking careworn, she left the room. Ron still seemed slightly punch-drunk; he was shaking his head experimentally like a dog trying to rid its ears of water.
"Dont you get used to her if shes staying in the same house?" Harry asked.
"Well, you do," said Ron, "ut if she jumps out at you unexpectedly, like then..."
"Its pathetic," said Hermione furiously, striding away from Ron as far as she could go and turning to face him with her arms folded once she had reached the wall.
"You dont really want her around forever?" Ginny asked Ron incredulously. When he merely shrugged, she said, "Well, Mums going to put a stop to it if she can, I et you anything."
"Hows she going to manage that?" asked Harry.
"She keeps trying to get Tonks round for dinner. I think shes hoping Bill will fall for Tonks instead. I hope he does, Id much rather have her in the family."
"Yeah, thatll work," said Ron sarcastically. "Listen, no loke in his right minds going to fancy Tonks when Fleurs around. I mean, Tonks is okay-looking when she isnt doing stupid things to her hair and her nose, ut..."
"Shes a damn sight nicer than Phlegm? said Ginny.
"And shes more intelligent, shes an Auror!" said Hermione from the corner.
"Fleurs not stupid, she was good enough to enter the Triwizard Tournament," said Harry.
"Not you as well!" said Hermione itterly.
"I suppose you like the way Phlegm says  Any, do you?" asked Ginny scornfully.
"No," said Harry, wishing he hadnt spoken, "I was just saying, Phlegm... I mean, Fleur..."
"Id much rather have Tonks in the family," said Ginny. "At least shes a laugh."
"She hasnt een much of a laugh lately," said Ron. "Every time Ive seen her shes looked more like Moaning Myrtle."
"Thats not fair," snapped Hermione. "She still hasnt got over what happened... you know... I mean, he was her cousin!"
Harrys heart sank. They had arrived at Sirius. He picked up a fork and egan shoveling scramled eggs into his mouth, hoping to deflect any invitation to join in this part of the conversation.
"Tonks and Sirius arely knew each other!" said Ron. "Sirius was in Azkaan half her life and efore that their families never met..."
"Thats not the point," said Hermione. "She thinks it was her limit he died!"
"How does she work that one out?" asked Harry, in spite of himself.
"Well, she was fighting Bellatrix Lestrange, wasnt she? I think she feels that if only she had finished her off, Bellatrix couldnt have killed Sirius."
"Thats stupid," said Ron.
"Its survivors guilt," said Hermione. "I know Lupins tried to talk her round, ut shes still really down. Shes actually having troule with her Metamorphosing!"
"With her...?"
"She cant change her appearance like she used to," explained Hermione. "I think her powers must have een affected y shock, or something."
"I didnt know that could happen," said Harry.
"Nor did I," said Hermione, "ut I suppose if youre really depressed..."
The door opened again and Mrs. Weasley popped her head in. "Ginny," she whispered, "come downstairs and help me with the lunch."
"Im talking to this lot!" said Ginny, outraged.
"Now!" said Mrs. Weasley, and withdrew.
"She only wants me there so she doesnt have to e alone with Phlegm!" said Ginny crossly. She swung her long red hair around in a very good imitation of Fleur and pranced across the room with her arms held aloft like a allerina.
"You lot had etter come down quickly too," she said as she left.
Harry took advantage of the temporary silence to eat more reakfast. Hermione was peering into Fred and Georges oxes, though every now and then she cast sideways looks at Harry. Ron, who was now helping himself to Harry...s toast, was still gazing dreamily at the door.
"Whats this?" Hermione asked eventually, holding up what looked like a small telescope.
"Dunno," said Ron, "ut if Fred and George left it here, its proaly not ready for the joke shop yet, so e careful"
"Your mum said the shops going well," said Harry. "Said Fred and George have got a real flair for usiness."
"Thats an understatement," said Ron. "Theyre raking in the Galleons! I cant wait to see the place, we havent een to Diagon Alley yet, ecause Mum says Dads got to e there for extra security and hes een really usy at work, ut it sounds excellent."
"And what aout Percy?" asked Harry; the third-eldest Weasley rother had fallen out with the rest of the family. "Is he talking to your mum and dad again?"
"Nope," said Ron.
"But he knows your dad was right all along now aout Voldemort eing ack..."
"Dumledore says people find it far easier to forgive others for eing wrong than eing right," said Hermione. "I heard him telling your mum, Ron."
"Sounds like the sort of mental thing Dumledore would say," said Ron.
"Hes going to e giving me private lessons this year," said Harry conversationally.
Ron choked on his it of toast, and Hermione gasped.
"You kept that quiet!" said Ron.
"I only just rememered," said Harry honestly. "He told me last night in your room shed."
"Blimey... private lessons with Dumledore!" said Ron, looking impressed. "I wonder why hes... ?"
His voice tailed away. Harry saw him and Hermione exchange looks. Harry laid down his knife and fork, his heart eating rather fast considering that all he was doing was sitting in ed. Dumledore had said to do it... Why not now? He fixed his eyes on his fork, which was gleaming in the sunlight streaming into his lap, and said, "I dont know exactly why hes going to e giving me lessons, ut I think it must e ecause of the prophecy."
Neither Ron nor Hermione spoke. Harry had the impression that oth had frozen. He continued, still speaking to his fork, "You know, the one they were trying to steal at the Ministry."
"Noody knows what it said, though," said Hermione quickly. "It got smashed."
"Although the Prophet says..." egan Ron, ut Hermione said, "Shh!"
"The Prophets got it right," said Harry, looking up at them oth with a great effort: Hermione seemed frightened and Ron amazed. "That glass all that smashed wasnt the only record of the prophecy. I heard the whole thing in Dumledores office, he was the one the prophecy was made to, so he could tell me. From what it said," Harry took a deep reath, "it looks like Im the one whos got to finish off Voldemort... At least, it said neither of us could live while the other survives."
The three of them gazed at one another in silence for a moment. Then there was a loud ang and Hermione vanished ehind a puff of lack smoke.
"Hermione!" shouted Harry and Ron; the reakfast tray slid to the floor with a crash.
Hermione emerged, coughing, out of the smoke, clutching the telescope and sporting a rilliantly purple lack eye.
"I squeezed it and it... it punched me!" she gasped.
And sure enough, they now saw a tiny fist on a long spring protruding from the end of the telescope.
"Dont worry," said Ron, who was plainly trying not to laugh, "Mumll fix that, shes good at healing minor injuries..."
"Oh well, never mind that now!" said Hermione hastily. "Harry, oh, Harry..."
She sat down on the edge of his ed again.
"We wondered, after we got ack from the Ministry... Oviously, we didnt want to say anything to you, ut from what Lucius Malfoy said aout the prophecy, how it was aout you and Voldemort, well, we thought it might e something like this... Oh, Harry..." She stared at him, then whispered, "Are you scared?"
"Not as much as I was," said Harry. "When I first heard it, I was... ut now, it seems as though I always knew Id have to face him in the end..."
"When we heard Dumledore was collecting you in person, we thought he might e telling you something or showing you something to do with the prophecy," said Ron eagerly. "And we were kind of right, werent we? He wouldnt e giving you lessons if he thought you were a goner, wouldnt waste his time... he must think youve got a chance!"
"Thats true," said Hermione. "I wonder what hell teach you, Harry? Really advanced defensive magic, proaly... powerful countercurses... anti-jinxes..."
Harry did not really listen. A warmth was spreading through him that had nothing to do with the sunlight; a tight ostruction in his chest seemed to e dissolving. He knew that Ron and Hermione were more shocked than they were letting on, ut the mere fact that they were still there on either side of him, speaking racing words of comfort, not shrinking from him as though he were contaminated or dangerous, was worth more than he could ever tell them.
"...and evasive enchantments generally," concluded Hermione. "Well, at least you know one lesson youll e having this year, thats one more than Ron and me. I wonder when our OWL results will come?"
"Cant e long now, its een a month," said Ron.
"Hang on," said Harry, as another part of last nights conversation came ack to him. "I think Dumledore said our OWL results would e arriving today!"
"Today?" shrieked Hermione. "Today? But why didnt you... oh my God... you should have said..."
She leapt to her feet.
"Im going to see whether any owls have come..."
But when Harry arrived downstairs ten minutes later, fully dressed and carrying his empty reakfast tray, it was to find Hermione sitting at the
kitchen tale in great agitation, while Mrs. Weasley tried to lessen her resemlance to half a panda.
"It just wont udge," Mrs. Weasley was saying anxiously, standing over Hermione with her wand in her hand and a copy of The Healers Helpmate open at "Bruises, Cuts, and Arasions." "This has always worked efore, I just cant understand it."
"Itll e Fred and Georges idea of a funny joke, making sure it cant come off," said Ginny.
"But its got to come off!" squeaked Hermione. "I cant go around looking like this forever!"
"You wont, dear, well find an antidote, dont worry," said Mrs. Weasley soothingly.
"Bill told me W Fred and George are very amusing!" said Fleur, smiling serenely.
"Yes, I can hardly reathe for laughing," snapped Hermione.
She jumped up and started walking round and round the kitchen, twisting her fingers together.
"Mrs. Weasley, youre quite, quite sure no owls have arrived this morning?"
"Yes, dear, Id have noticed," said Mrs. Weasley patiently. "But its arely nine, theres still plenty of time..."
"I know I messed up Ancient Runes," muttered Hermione feverishly, "I definitely made at least one serious mistranslation. And the Defense Against the Dark Arts practical was no good at all. I thought Transfiguration went all right at the time, ut looking ack..."
"Hermione, will you shut up, youre not the only one whos nervous!" arked Ron. "And when youve got your eleven Outstanding OWLs...’"
"Dont, dont, dont!" said Hermione, flapping her hands hysterically. "I know Ive failed everything!"
"What happens if we fail?" Harry asked the room at large, ut it was again Hermione who answered.
"We discuss our options with our Head of House, I asked Professor McGonagall at the end of last term."
Harrys stomach squirmed. He wished he had eaten less reakfast.
"At Beauxatons," said Fleur complacently, "we ad a different way of doing things. I think eet was etter. We sat our examinations after six years of study, not five, and then..."
Fleurs words were drowned in a scream. Hermione was pointing through the kitchen window. Three lack specks were clearly visile in the sky, growing larger all the time.
"Theyre definitely owls," said Ron hoarsely, jumping up to join Hermione at the window.
"And there are three of them," said Harry, hastening to her other side.
"One for each of us," said Hermione in a terrified whisper. "Oh no... oh no... oh no..."
She gripped oth Harry and Ron tightly around the elows.
The owls were flying directly at the Burrow, three handsome tawnies, each of which, it ecame clear as they flew lower over the path leading up to the house, was carrying a large square envelope.
"Oh no!" squealed Hermione.
Mrs. Weasley squeezed past them and opened the kitchen window. One, two, three, the owls soared through it and landed on the tale in a neat line. All three of them lifted their right legs.
Harry moved forward. The letter addressed to him was tied to the leg of the owl in the middle. He untied it with fumling fingers. To his left, Ron
was trying to detach his own results; to his right, Hermiones hands were shaking so much she was making her whole owl tremle.
Noody in the kitchen spoke. At last, Harry managed to detach the envelope. He slit it open quickly and unfolded the parchment inside.
Ordinary Wizarding Level Results
Pass Grades:
Outstanding (O)
Exceeds Expectations (E)
Acceptale (A)
Fail Grades:
Poor (P)
Dreadful (D)
Troll (T)
Harry James Potter has achieved:
Astronomy A
Care of Magical Creatures E
Charms E
Defense Against the Dark Arts O
Divination P
Herology E
History of Magic D
Potions E
Transfiguration E
Harry read the parchment through several times, his reathing ecoming easier with each reading. It was all right: He had always known that he would fail Divination, and he had had no chance of passing History of Magic, given that he had collapsed halfway through the examination, ut he had passed everything else! He ran his finger down the grades... he had passed well in Transfiguration and Herology, he had even exceeded
expectations at Potions! And est of all, he had achieved "Outstanding" at Defense Against the Dark Arts!
He looked around. Hermione had her ack to him and her head ent, ut Ron was looking delighted.
"Only failed Divination and History of Magic, and who cares aout them?" he said happily to Harry. "Here... swap..."
Harry glanced down Rons grades: There were no "Outstandings" there...
"Knew youd e top at Defense Against the Dark Arts," said Ron, punching Harry on the shoulder. "Weve done all right, havent we?"
"Well done!" said Mrs. Weasley proudly, ruffling Rons hair. "Seven OWLs, thats more than Fred and George got together!"
"Hermione?" said Ginny tentatively, for Hermione still hadnt turned around. "How did you do?"
"I--not ad," said Hermione in a small voice.
"Oh, come off it," said Ron, striding over to her and whipping her results out of her hand. "Yep... ten Outstandings and one Exceeds Expectations at Defense Against the Dark Arts." He looked down at her, half-amused, half-exasperated. "Youre actually disappointed, arent you?"
Hermione shook her head, ut Harry laughed.
"Well, were N.E.W.T. students now!" grinned Ron. "Mum, are there any more sausages?"
Harry looked ack down at his results. They were as good as he could have hoped for. He felt just one tiny twinge of regret... This was the end of his amition to ecome an Auror. He had not secured the required Potions grade. He had known all along that he wouldnt, ut he still felt a sinking in his stomach as he looked again at that small lack E.
It was odd, really, seeing that it had een a Death Eater in disguise who had first told Harry he would make a good Auror, ut somehow the idea had taken hold of him, and he couldnt really think of anything else he would like to e. Moreover, it had seemed the right destiny for him since he had heard the prophecy a few weeks ago... Neither can live while the other survives...Wouldnt he e living up to the prophecy, and giving himself the est chance of survival, if he joined those highly trained wizards whose jo it was to find and kill Voldemort?
Chapter 6: Dracos Detour
Harry remained within the confines of the Burrows garden over the next few weeks. He spent most of his days playing two-a-side Quidditch in the Weasleys orchard (he and Hermione against Ron and Ginny; Hermione was dreadful and Ginny good, so they were reasonaly well matched) and his evenings eating triple helpings of everything Mrs. Weasley put in front of him.
It would have een a happy, peaceful holiday had it not een for the stones of disappearances, odd accidents, even of deaths now appearing almost daily in the Prophet. Sometimes Bill and Mr. Weasley rought home news efore it even reached the paper. To Mrs. Weasley’s displeasure, Harrys sixteenth irthday celerations were marred y grisly tidings rought to the party y Remus Lupin, who was looking gaunt and grim, his rown hair streaked lierally with gray, his clothes more ragged and patched than ever.
"There have een another couple of dementor attacks," he announced, as Mrs. Weasley passed him a large slice of irthday cake. "And theyve found Igor Karkaroffs ody in a shack up north. The Dark Mark had een set over it... well, frankly, Im surprised he stayed alive for even a year after deserting the Death Eaters; Siriuss rother, Regulus, only managed a few days as far as I can rememer."
"Yes, well," said Mrs. Weasley, frowning, "perhaps we should talk aout something diff..."
"Did you hear aout Florean Fortescue, Remus?" asked Bill, who was eing plied with wine y Fleur. "The man who ran..."
"Is the ice-cream place in Diagon Alley?" Harry interrupted, with an unpleasant, hollow sensation in the pit of his stomach. "He used to give me free ice creams. Whats happened to him?"
"Dragged off, y the look of his place."
"Why?" asked Ron, while Mrs. Weasley pointedly glared at Bill.
"Who knows? He mustve upset them somehow. He was a good man, Florean."
"Talking of Diagon Alley," said Mr. Weasley, "looks like Ollivanders gone too."
"The wandmaker?" said Ginny, looking startled.
"Thats the one. Shops empty. No sign of a struggle. No one knows whether he left voluntarily or was kidnapped."
"But whatll people do for wands?"
"Theyll make do with other makers," said Lupin. "But Ollivander was the est, and if the other side have got him its not so good for us."
The day after this rather gloomy irthday tea, their letters and ooklists arrived from Hogwarts. Harrys included a surprise: he had een made Quidditch Captain.
"That gives you equal status with prefects!" cried Hermione happily. "You can use our special athroom now and everything!"
"Wow, I rememer when Charlie wore one of these," said Ron, examining the adge with glee. "Harry, this is so cool, youre my Captain... if you let me ack on the team, I suppose, ha ha..."
"Well, I dont suppose we can put off a trip to Diagon Alley much longer now youve got these," sighed Mrs. Weasley, looking down Ron...s ooklist. "Well go on Saturday as long as your father doesnt have to go into work again. Im not going there without him."
"Mum, dyou honestly think You-Know-Whos going to e hiding ehind a ookshelf in Flourish and Blotts?" sniggered Ron.
"Fortescue and Ollivander went on holiday, did they?" said Mrs. Weasley, firing up at once. "If you think securitys a laughing matter you can stay ehind and Ill get your things myself..."
"No, I wanna come, I want to see Fred and Georges shop!" said Ron hastily.
"Then you just uck up your ideas, young man, efore I decide youre too immature to come with us!" said Mrs. Weasley angrily, snatching up her clock, all nine hands of which were still pointing at "mortal peril," and alancing it on top of a pile of just-laundered towels. "And that goes for returning to Hogwarts as well!"
Ron turned to stare incredulously at Harry as his mother hoisted the laundry asket and the teetering clock into her arms and stormed out of the room.
"Blimey... you cant even make a joke round here anymore..."
But Ron was careful not to e flippant aout Voldemort over the next few days. Saturday dawned without any more outursts from Mrs. Weasley, though she seemed very tense at reakfast. Bill, who would e staying at home with Fleur (much to Hermione and Ginnys pleasure), passed a full money ag across the tale to Harry.
"Wheres mine?" demanded Ron at once, his eyes wide.
"Thats already Harrys, idiot," said Bill. "I got it out of your vault for you, Harry, ecause its taking aout five hours for the pulic to get to their gold at the moment, the golins have tightened security so much. Two days ago
Arkie Philpott had a Proity Proe stuck up his... Well, trust me, this ways easier."
"Thanks, Bill," said Harry, pocketing his gold.
"E is always so thoughtful," purred Fleur adoringly, stroking Bills nose. Ginny mimed vomiting into her cereal ehind Fleur. Harry choked over his cornflakes, and Ron thumped him on the ack.
It was an overcast, murky day. One of the special Ministry of Magic cars, in which Harry had ridden once efore, was awaiting them in the front yard when they emerged from the house, pulling on their cloaks.
"Its good Dad can get us these again," said Ron appreciatively, stretching luxuriously as the car moved smoothly away from the Burrow, Bill and Fleur waving from the kitchen window. He, Harry, Hermione, and Ginny were all sitting in roomy comfort in the wide ackseat.
"Dont get used to it, its only ecause of Harry," said Mr. Weasley over his shoulder. He and Mrs. Weasley were in front with the Ministry driver; the front passenger seat had oligingly stretched into what resemled a two-seater sofa. "Hes een given top-grade security status. And well e joining up with additional security at the Leaky Cauldron too."
Harry said nothing; he did not much fancy doing his shopping while surrounded y a attalion of Aurors. He had stowed his Invisiility Cloak in his ackpack and felt that, if that was good enough for Dumledore, it ought
to e good enough for the Ministry, though now he came to think of it, he was not sure the Ministry knew aout his cloak.
"Here you are, then," said the driver, a surprisingly short while later, speaking for the first time as he slowed in Charing Cross Road and stopped outside the Leaky Cauldron. "Im to wait for you, any idea how long youll e?"
"A couple of hours, I expect," said Mr. Weasley. "Ah, good, hes here!"
Harry imitated Mr. Weasley and peered through the window; his heart leapt. There were no Aurors waiting outside the inn, ut instead the gigantic, lack-earded form of Rueus Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, wearing a long eaverskin coat, eaming at the sight of Harrys face and olivious to the startled stares of passing Muggles.
"Harry!" he oomed, sweeping Harry into a one-crushing hug the moment Harry had stepped out of the car. "Buckeak... Witherwings, I mean... yeh should see him, Harry, hes so happy ter e ack in the open air..."
"Glad hes pleased," said Harry, grinning as he massaged his ris. "We didnt know security meant you!"
"I know, jus like old times, innit? See, the Ministry wanted ter send a unch o Aurors, ut Dumledore said Id do," said Hagrid proudly, throwing
out his chest and tucking his thums into his pockets. "Lets get goin then... after yeh, Molly, Arthur..."
The Leaky Cauldron was, for the first time in Harrys memory, completely empty. Only Tom the landlord, wizened and toothless, remained of the old crowd. He looked up hopefully as they entered, ut efore he could speak, Hagrid said importantly, "Jus passin through today, Tom, sure yeh understand, Hogwarts usiness, yeh know."
Tom nodded gloomily and returned to wiping glasses; Harry, Hermione, Hagrid, and the Weasleys walked through the ar and out into the chilly little courtyard at the ack where the dustins stood. Hagrid raised his pink umrella and rapped a certain rick in the wall, which opened at once to form an archway onto a winding coled street. They stepped through the entrance and paused, looking around.
Diagon Alley had changed. The colorful, glittering window displays of spellooks, potion ingredients, and cauldrons were lost to view, hidden ehind the large Ministry of Magic posters that had een pasted over them. Most of these somer purple posters carried lown-up versions of the security advice on the Ministry pamphlets that had een sent out over the summer, ut others ore moving lack-and-white photographs of Death Eaters known to e on the loose. Bellatrix Lestrange was sneering from the front of the nearest apothecary. A few windows were oarded up, including those of Florean Fortescues Ice Cream Parlor. On the other hand, a numer of shay-looking stalls had sprung up along the street. The nearest one,
which had een erected outside Flourish and Blotts, under a striped, stained awning, had a cardoard sign pinned to its front:
AMULETS
Effective Against Werewolves, Dementors, and Inferi!
A seedy-looking little wizard was rattling armfuls of silver symols on chains at passersy.
"One for your little girl, madam?" he called at Mrs. Weasley as they passed, leering at Ginny. "Protect her pretty neck?"
"If I were on duty..." said Mr. Weasley, glaring angrily at the amulet seller.
"Yes, ut dont go arresting anyone now, dear, were in a hurry," said Mrs. Weasley, nervously consulting a list. "I think wed etter do Madam Malkins first, Hermione wants new dress roes, and Rons showing much too much ankle in his school roes, and you must need new ones too, Harry, youve grown so much... come on, everyone..."
"Molly, it doesnt make sense for all of us to go to Madam Malkins," said Mr. Weasley. "Why dont those three go with Hagrid, and we can go to Flourish and Blotts and get everyones school-ooks?"
"I dont know," said Mrs. Weasley anxiously, clearly torn etween a desire to finish the shopping quickly and the wish to stick together in a pack. "Hagrid, do you think...- ?"
"Dont fret, theyll e fine with me, Molly," said Hagrid soothingly, waving an airy hand the size of a dustin lid. Mrs. Weasley did not look entirely convinced, ut allowed the separation, scurrying off toward Flourish and Blotts with her husand and Ginny while Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Hagrid set off for Madam Malkins.
Harry noticed that many of the people who passed them had the same harried, anxious look as Mrs. Weasley, and that noody was stopping to talk anymore; the shoppers stayed together in their own tightly knit groups, moving intently aout their usiness. Noody seemed to e shopping alone.
"Migh e a it of a squeeze in there with all of us," said Hagrid, stopping outside Madam Malkins and ending down to peer through the window. "Ill stand guard outside, all right?"
So Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the little shop together. It appeared, at first glance, to e empty, ut no sooner had the door swung shut ehind them than they heard a familiar voice issuing from ehind a rack of dress roes in spangled green and lue.
"... not a child, in case you havent noticed, Mother. I am perfectly capale of doing my shopping alone."
There was a clucking noise and a voice Harry recognized as that of Madam Malkin, the owner, said, "Now, dear, your mothers quite right, none of us is supposed to go wandering around on our own anymore, its nothing to do with eing a child..."
"Watch where youre sticking that pin, will you!"
A teenage oy with a pale, pointed face and white-lond hair appeared from ehind the rack, wearing a handsome set of dark green roes that glittered with pins around the hem and the edges of the sleeves. He strode to the mirror and examined himself; it was a few moments efore he noticed Harry, Ron, and Hermione reflected over his shoulder. His light gray eyes narrowed.
"If youre wondering what the smell is, Mother, a Mudlood just walked in," said Draco Malfoy.
"I dont think theres any need for language like that!" said Madam Malkin, scurrying out from ehind the clothes rack holding a tape measure and a wand. "And I dont want wands drawn in my shop either!" she added hastily, for a glance toward the door had shown her Harry and Ron oth standing there with their wands out and pointing at Malfoy. Hermione, who was standing slightly ehind them, whispered, "No, dont, honestly, its not worth it. "
"Yeah, like youd dare do magic out of school," sneered Malfoy. "Who lacked your eye, Granger? I want to send them flowers."
"Thats quite enough!" said Madam Malkin sharply, looking over her shoulder for support. "Madam, please!"
Narcissa Malfoy strolled out from ehind the clothes rack.
"Put those away," she said coldly to Harry and Ron. "If you at-tack my son again, I shall ensure that it is the last thing you ever do."
"Really?" said Harry, taking a step forward and gazing into the smoothly arrogant face that, for all its pallor, still resemled her sisters. He was as tall as she was now. "Going to get a few Death Eater pals to do us in, are you?"
Madam Malkin squealed and clutched at her heart.
"Really, you shouldnt accuse... dangerous thing to say... wands away, please!"
But Harry did not lower his wand. Narcissa Malfoy smiled unpleasantly.
"I see that eing Dumledores favorite has given you a false sense of security, Harry Potter. But Dumledore wont always e there to protect you."
Harry looked mockingly all around the shop. "Wow... look at that... hes not here now! So why not have a go? They might e ale to find you a doule cell in Azkaan with your loser of a husand!"
Malfoy made an angry movement toward Harry, ut stumled over his overlong roe. Ron laughed loudly.
"Dont you dare talk to my mother like that, Potter!" Malfoy snarled.
"Its all right, Draco," said Narcissa, restraining him with her thin white fingers upon his shoulder. "I expect Potter will e reunited with dear Sirius efore I am reunited with Lucius."
Harry raised his wand higher.
"Harry, no!" moaned Hermione, graing his arm and attempting to push it down y his side. "Think... You mustnt... Youll e in such troule..."
Madam Malkin dithered for a moment on the spot, then seemed to decide to act as though nothing was happening in the hope that it wouldnt. She ent toward Malfoy, who was still glaring at Harry.
"I think this left sleeve could come up a little it more, dear, let me just..."
"Ouch!" ellowed Malfoy, slapping her hand away. "Watch where youre putting your pins, woman! Mother, I dont think I want these anymore."
He pulled the roes over his head and threw them onto the floor at Madam Malkins feet.
"Youre right, Draco," said Narcissa, with a contemptuous glance at Hermione, "now I know the kind of scum that shops here... Well do etter at Twilfitt and Tattings."
And with that, the pair of them strode out of the shop, Malfoy taking care to ang as hard as he could into Ron on the way out.
"Well, really? said Madam Malkin, snatching up the fallen roes and moving the tip of her wand over them like a vacuum cleaner, so that it removed all the dust.
She was distracted all through the fitting of Rons and Harrys new roes, tried to sell Hermione wizards dress roes instead of witchs, and when she finally owed them out of the shop it was with an air of eing glad to see the ack of them.
"Got evrything?" asked Hagrid rightly when they reappeared at his side.
"Just aout," said Harry. "Did you see the Malfoys?"
"Yeah," said Hagrid, unconcerned. "Bu they wouldn... dare make troule in the middle o Diagon Alley, Harry. Don worry aou1 them."
Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged looks, ut efore they could disause Hagrid of this comfortale notion, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Ginny appeared, all clutching heavy packages of ooks.
"Everyone all right?" said Mrs. Weasley. "Got your roes? Right then, we can pop in at the Apothecary and Eeylops on the way to Fred and Georges... stick close, now..."
Neither Harry nor Ron ought any ingredients at the Apothecary, seeing that they were no longer studying Potions, ut oth ought large oxes of owl nuts for Hedwig and Pigwidgeon at Eeylops Owl Emporium. Then, with Mrs. Weasley checking her watch every minute or so, they headed farther along the street in search of Weasleys Wizard Wheezes, the joke shop run y Fred and George.
"We really havent got too long," Mrs. Weasley said. "So well just have a quick look around and then ack to the car. We must e close, thats numer ninety-two... ninety-four..."
"Whoa,"said Ron, stopping in his tracks.
Set against the dull, poster-muffled shop Fronts around them, Fred and Georges windows hit the eye like a firework display. Casual passersy were looking ack over their shoulders at the windows, and a few rather stunned-looking people had actually come to a halt, transfixed. The left-hand window was dazzlingly full of an assortment of goods that revolved, popped, flashed, ounced, and shrieked; Harrys eyes egan to water just looking at it. The right-hand window was covered with a gigantic poster, purple like those of the Ministry, ut emlazoned with flashing yellow letters:
WHY ARE YOU WORRYING ABOUT
YOU-KNOW-WHO?
YOU SHOULD BE WORRYING ABOUT
U-NO-POO--
THE CONSTIPATION SENSATION
THATS GRIPPING THE NATION!
Harry started to laugh. He heard a weak sort of moan eside him and looked around to see Mrs. Weasley gazing, dumfounded, at the poster. Her lips moved silently, mouthing the name "U-No-Poo."
"Theyll e murdered in their eds!" she whispered.
"No they won’t!" said Ron, who, like Harry, was laughing. "This is rilliant!"
And he and Harry led the way into the shop. It was packed with customers; Harry could not get near the shelves. He stared around, looking up at the oxes piled to the ceiling: Here were the Skiving Snackoxes that the twins had perfected during their last, unfinished year at Hogwarts; Harry noticed that the Noseleed Nougat was most popular, with only one attered ox left on the shelf. There were ins full of trick wands, the cheapest merely turning into ruer chickens or pairs of riefs when waved, the most expensive eating the unwary user around the head and neck, and oxes of quills, which came in Self-Inking, Spell-Checking, and Smart-Answer varieties. A space cleared in the crowd, and Harry pushed his way toward the counter, where a gaggle of delighted ten-year-olds was watching a tiny little wooden man slowly ascending the steps to a real set of gallows, oth perched on a ox that read: Reusale hangman - spell it or hell swing!
"Patented Daydream Charms"
Hermione had managed to squeeze through to a large display near the counter and was reading the information on the ack of a ox earing a highly colored picture of a handsome youth and a swooning girl who were standing on the deck of a pirate ship.
"One simple incantation and you will enter a top-quality, highly realistic, thirty-minute daydream, easy to fit into the average school lesson and virtually undetectale (side effects include vacant expression and minor drooling). Not for sale to under-sixteens. You know," said Hermione, looking up at Harry, "that really is extraordinary magic!"
"For that, Hermione," said a voice ehind them, "you can have one for free."
A eaming Fred stood efore them, wearing a set of magenta roes that clashed magnificently with his flaming hair.
"How are you, Harry?" They shook hands. "And whats happened to your eye, Hermione?"
Your punching telescope," she said ruefully.
"Oh limey, I forgot aout those," said Fred. "Here..."
He pulled a tu out of his pocket and handed it to her; she unscrewed it gingerly to reveal a thick yellow paste.
"Just da it on, that ruisell e gone within the hour," said Fred. "We had to find a decent ruise remover. Were testing most of our products on ourselves."
Hermione looked nervous. "It is safe, isnt it?" she asked.
"Course it is," said Fred racingly. "Come on, Harry, Ill give you a tour."
Harry left Hermione daing her lack eye with paste and followed Fred toward the ack of the shop, where he saw a stand of card and rope tricks.
"Muggle magic tricks!" said Fred happily, pointing them out. "For freaks like Dad, you know, who love Muggle stuff. Its not a ig earner, ut we do fairly steady usiness, theyre great novelties... Oh, heres George..."
Freds twin shook Harrys hand energetically.
"Giving him the tour? Come through the ack, Harry, thats where were making the real money...pocket anything, you, and youll pay in more than Galleons!" he added warningly to a small oy who hastily whipped his hand out of the tu laeled:
EDIBLE DARK MARKS----THEYLL MAKE ANYONE SICK!
George pushed ack a curtain eside the Muggle tricks and Harry saw a darker, less crowded room. The packaging on the products lining these shelves was more sudued.
"Weve just developed this more serious line," said Fred. "Funny how it happened..."
"You wouldnt elieve how many people, even people who work at the Ministry, cant do a decent Shield Charm," said George. "Course, they didnt have you teaching them, Harry."
"Thats right... Well, we thought Shield Hats were a it of a laugh, you know, challenge your mate to jinx you while wearing it and watch his face when the jinx just ounces off. But the Ministry ought five hundred for all its support staff! And were still getting massive orders!"
"So weve expanded into a range of Shield Cloaks, Shield Gloves..."
"... I mean, they wouldnt help much against the Unforgivale Curses, ut for minor to moderate hexes or jinxes..."
"And then we thought wed get into the whole area of Defense Against the Dark Arts, ecause its such a money spinner," continued George enthusiastically. "This is cool. Look, Instant Darkness Powder, were importing it from Peru. Handy if you want to make a quick escape."
"And our Decoy Detonators are just walking off the shelves, look," said Fred, pointing at a numer of weird-looking lack horn-type ojects that were indeed attempting to scurry out of sight. "You just drop one surreptitiously and itll run off and make a nice loud noise out of sight, giving you a diversion if you need one.
"Handy," said Harry, impressed.
"Here," said George, catching a couple and throwing them to Harry.
A young witch with short londe hair poked her head around the curtain; Harry saw that she too was wearing magenta staff roes.
"Theres a customer out here looking for a joke cauldron, Mr. Weasley and Mr. Weasley," she said.
Harry found it very odd to hear Fred and George called "Mr. Weasley," ut they took it in their stride.
"Right you are, Verity, Im coming," said George promptly. "Harry, you help yourself to anything you want, all right? No charge."
"I cant do that!" said Harry, who had already pulled out his money ag to pay for the Decoy Detonators.
"You dont pay here," said Fred firmly, waving away Harrys gold.
"But..."
"You gave us our start-up loan, we havent forgotten," said George sternly "Take whatever you like, and just rememer to tell people where you got it, if they ask."
George swept off through the curtain to help with the customers, and Fred led Harry ack into the main part of the shop to find Hermione and Ginny still poring over the Patented Daydream Charms.
"Havent you girls found our special WonderWitch products yet?" asked Fred. "Follow me, ladies..."
Near the window was an array of violently pink products around which a cluster of excited girls was giggling enthusiastically. Hermione and Ginny oth hung ack, looking wary.
"There you go," said Fred proudly. "Best range of love potions youll find anywhere."
Ginny raised an eyerow skeptically. "Do they work?" she asked.
"Certainly they work, for up to twenty-four hours at a time depending on the weight of the oy in question..."
"... and the attractiveness of the girl," said George, reappearing suddenly at their side. "But were not selling them to our sister," he added, ecoming
suddenly stern, "not when shes already got aout five oys on the go from what weve..."
"Whatever youve heard from Ron is a ig fat lie," said Ginny calmly, leaning forward to take a small pink pot off the shelf. "Whats this?"
"Guaranteed ten-second pimple vanisher," said Fred. "Excellent on everything from oils to lackheads, ut dont change the suject. Are you or are you not currently going out with a oy called Dean Thomas?"
"Yes, I am," said Ginny. "And last time I looked, he was definitely one oy, not five. What are those?"
She was pointing at a numer of round alls of fluff in shades of pink and purple, all rolling around the ottom of a cage and emitting high-pitched squeaks.
"Pygmy Puffs," said George. "Miniature puffskeins, we can...t reed them fast enough. So what aout Michael Corner?"
"I dumped him, he was a ad loser," said Ginny, putting a finger through the ars of the cage and watching the Pygmy Puffs crowd around it. "Theyre really cute!"
"Theyre fairly cuddly, yes," conceded Fred. "But youre moving through oyfriends a it fast, arent you?"
Ginny turned to look at him, her hands on her hips. There was such a Mrs. Weasley-ish glare on her face that Harry was surprised Fred didnt recoil.
"Its none of your usiness. And Ill thank you she added angrily to Ron, who had just appeared at Georges elow, laden with merchandise, "not to tell tales aout me to these two!"
"Thats three Galleons, nine Sickles, and a Knut," said Fred, examining the many oxes in Rons arms. "Cough up."
"Im your rother!"
"And thats our stuff youre nicking. Three Galleons, nine Sickles. Ill knock off the Knut."
"But I havent got three Galleons, nine Sickles!"
"Youd etter put it ack then, and mind you put it on the right shelves."
Ron dropped several oxes, swore, and made a rude hand gesture at Fred that was unfortunately spotted y Mrs. Weasley, who had chosen that moment to appear.
"If I see you do that again Ill jinx your fingers together," she said sharply.
"Mum, can I have a Pygmy Puff?" said Ginny at once.
"A what?" said Mrs. Weasley warily.
"Look, theyre so sweet..."
Mrs. Weasley moved aside to look at the Pygmy Puffs, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione momentarily had an unimpeded view out of the window. Draco Malfoy was hurrying up the street alone. As he passed Weasleys Wizard Wheezes, he glanced over his shoulder. Seconds later, he moved eyond the scope of the window and they lost sight of him.
"Wonder where his mummy is?" said Harry, frowning.
"Given her the slip y the looks of it," said Ron.
"Why, though?" said Hermione.
Harry said nothing; he was thinking too hard. Narcissa Malfoy would not have let her precious son out of her sight willingly; Malfoy must have made a real effort to free himself from her clutches.
Harry, knowing and loathing Malfoy, was sure the reason could not e innocent.
He glanced around. Mrs. Weasley and Ginny were ending over the Pygmy Puffs. Mr. Weasley was delightedly examining a pack of Muggle marked playing cards. Fred and George were oth helping customers. On the
other side of the glass, Hagrid was standing with his ack to them, looking up and down the street.
"Get under here, quick," said Harry, pulling his Invisiility Cloak out of his ag.
"Oh, I dont know, Harry," said Hermione, looking uncertainly toward Mrs. Weasley.
"Come on," said Ron.
She hesitated for a second longer, then ducked under the cloak with Harry and Ron. Noody noticed them vanish; they were all too interested in Fred and Georges products. Harry, Ron, and Hermione squeezed their way out of the door as quickly as they could, ut y the time they gained the street, Malfoy had disappeared just as successfully as they had.
"He was going in that direction," murmured Harry as quietly as possile, so that the humming Hagrid would not hear them...Cmon...
They scurried along, peering left and right, through shop windows and doors, until Hermione pointed ahead.
"Thats him, isnt it?" she whispered. "Turning left?"
"Big surprise," whispered Ron.
For Malfoy had glanced around, then slid into Knockturn Alley and out of sight.
"Quick, or well lose him," said Harry, speeding up.
"Our feetll e seen!" said Hermione anxiously, as the cloak flapped a little around their ankles; it was much more difficult hiding all three of them under the cloak nowadays.
"It doesnt matter," said Harry impatiently. "Just hurry!"
But Knockturn Alley, the side street devoted to the Dark Arts, looked completely deserted. They peered into windows as they passed, ut none of the shops seemed to have any customers at all. Harry supposed it was a it of a giveaway in these dangerous and suspicious times to uy Dark artifacts... or at least, to e seen uying them.
Hermione gave his arm a hard pinch.
"Ouch!"
"Shh! Look! Hes in there!" she reathed in Harrys ear.
They had drawn level with the only shop in Knockturn Alley that Harry had ever visited, Borgin and Burkes, which sold a wide variety of sinister ojects. There in the midst of the cases full of skulls and old ottles stood Draco Malfoy with his ack to them, just visile eyond the very same large
lack cainet in which Harry had once hidden to avoid Malfoy and his father. Judging y the movements of Malfoys hands, he was talking animatedly. The proprietor of the shop, Mr. Borgin, an oily-haired, stooping man, stood facing Malfoy. He was wearing a curious expression of mingled resentment and fear.
"If only we could hear what theyre saying!" said Hermione.
"We can!" said Ron excitedly. "Hang on, damn."
He dropped a couple more of the oxes he was still clutching as he fumled with the largest.
"Extendale Ears, look!"
"Fantastic!" said Hermione, as Ron unraveled the long, flesh-colored strings and egan to feed them toward the ottom of the door. "Oh, I hope the door isnt Imperturale..."
"No!" said Ron gleefully. "Listen!"
They put their heads together and listened intently to the ends of the strings, through which Malfoys voice could e heard loud and clear, as though a radio had een turned on.
"... you know how to fix it?"
"Possily," said Borgin, in a tone that suggested he was unwilling to commit himself. "Ill need to see it, though. Why dont you ring it into the shop?"
"I cant," said Malfoy. "Its got to stay put. I just need you to tell me how to do it."
Harry saw Borgin lick his lips nervously.
"Well, without seeing it, I must say it will e a very difficult jo, perhaps impossile. I couldnt guarantee anything."
"No?" said Malfoy, and Harry knew, just y his tone, that Malfoy was sneering. "Perhaps this will make you more confident."
He moved toward Borgin and was locked from view y the cainet. Harry, Ron, and Hermione shuffled sideways to try and keep him in sight, ut all they could see was Borgin, looking very frightened.
"Tell anyone," said Maifoy, "and there will e retriution. You know Fenrir Greyack? Hes a family friend. Hell e dropping in from time to time to make sure youre giving the prolem your full attention."
"There will e no need for..."
"Ill decide that," said Malfoy. "Well, Id etter e off. And dont forget to keep that one safe, Ill need it."
"Perhaps youd like to take it now?"
"No, of course I wouldnt, you stupid, little man, how would I look carrying that down the street? Just dont sell it."
"Of course not... sir."
Borgin made a ow as deep as the one Harry had once seen him give Lucius Malfoy.
"Not a word to anyone, Borgin, and that includes my mother, understand?"
"Naturally, naturally," murmured Borgin, owing again.
Next moment, the ell over the door tinkled loudly as Malfoy stalked out of the shop looking very pleased with himself. He passed so close to Harry, Ron, and Hermione that they felt the cloak flutter around their knees again. Inside the shop, Borgin remained frozen; his unctuous smile had vanished; he looked worried.
"What was that aout?" whispered Ron, reeling in the Extendale Ears.
"Dunno," said Harry, thinking hard. "He wants something mended... and he wants to reserve something in there... Could you see what he pointed at when he said that one?"
"No, he was ehind that cainet..."
"You two stay here," whispered Hermione.
"What are you... ?"
But Hermione had already ducked out from under the cloak. She checked her hair in the reflection in the glass, then marched into the shop, setting the ell tinkling again. Ron hastily fed the Extendale Ears ack under the door and passed one of the strings to Harry.
"Hello, horrile morning, isnt it?" Hermione said rightly to Borgin, who did not answer, ut cast her a suspicious look. Humming cheerily, Hermione strolled through the jumle of ojects on display.
"Is this necklace for sale?" she asked, pausing eside a glass-fronted case.
"If youve got one and a half thousand Galleons," said Mr. Borgin coldly.
"Oh... er... no, I havent got quite that much," said Hermione, walking on. "And... what aout this lovely... um... skull?"
"Sixteen Galleons."
"So its for sale, then? It isnt eing... kept for anyone?"
Mr. Borgin squinted at her. Harry had the nasty feeling he knew exactly what Hermione was up to. Apparently Hermione felt she had een rumled too ecause she suddenly threw caution to the winds.
"The thing is, that... er... oy who was in here just now, Draco Malfoy, well, hes a friend of mine, and I want to get him a irthday present, ut if hes already reserved anything, I oviously dont want to get him the same thing, so... um..."
It was a pretty lame story in Harrys opinion, and apparently Borgin thought so too.
"Out," he said sharply. "Get out!"
Hermione did not wait to e asked twice, ut hurried to the door with Borgin at her heels. As the ell tinkled again, Borgin slammed the door ehind her and put up the closed sign.
"Ah well," said Ron, throwing the cloak ack over Hermione. "Worth a try, ut you were a it ovious..."
"Well, next time you can show me how its done, Master of Mystery!" she snapped.
Ron and Hermione ickered all the way ack to Weasleys
Wizard Wheezes, where they were forced to stop so that they could dodge undetected around a very anxious-looking Mrs. Weasley and Hagrid, who had clearly noticed their asence. Once in the shop, Harry whipped off the Invisiility Cloak, hid it in his ag, and joined in with the other two when they insisted, in answer to Mrs. Weasleys accusations, that they had een in the ack room all along, and that she could not have looked properly.
Chapter 7: The Slug Clu
Harry spent a lot of the last week of the holidays pondering the meaning of Malfoys ehavior in Knockturn Alley. What distured him most was the satisfied look on Malfoys face as he had left the shop. Nothing that made Malfoy look that happy could e good news. To his slight annoyance, however, neither Ron nor Hermione seemed quite as curious aout Malfoys activities as he was; or at least, they seemed to get ored of discussing it after a few days.
"Yes, Ive already agreed it was fishy, Harry," said Hermione a little impatiently. She was sitting on the windowsill in Fred and Georges room with her feet up on one of the cardoard oxes and had only grudgingly looked up from her new copy of Advanced Rune Translation. "But havent we agreed there could e a lot of explanations?"
"Maye hes roken his Hand of Glory" said Ron vaguely, as he attempted to straighten his roomsticks ent tail twigs. "Rememer that shriveled-up arm Malfoy had?"
"But what aout when he said, Dont forget to keep that one safe?" asked Harry for the umpteenth time. "That sounded to me like Borgins got another one of the roken ojects, and Malfoy wants oth."
"You reckon?" said Ron, now trying to scrape some dirt off his room handle.
"Yeah, I do," said Harry. When neither Ron nor Hermione answered, he said, "Malfoys fathers in Azkaan. Dont you think Malfoy’d like revenge?"
Ron looked up, linking.
"Malfoy, revenge? What can he do aout it?"
"Thats my point, I dont know!" said Harry, frustrated. "But hes up to something and I think we should take it seriously. His fathers a Death Eater and ..."
Harry roke off, his eyes fixed on the window ehind Hermione, his mouth open. A startling thought had just occurred to him.
"Harry?" said Hermione in an anxious voice. "Whats wrong?"
"Your scars not hurting again, is it?" asked Ron nervously.
"Hes a Death Eater," said Harry slowly. "Hes replaced his father as a Death Eater!"
There was a silence; then Ron erupted in laughter. "Malfoy? Hes sixteen, Harry! You think You-Know-Who would let Malfoy join?"
"It seems very unlikely, Harry," said Hermione in a repressive sort of voice. "What makes you think ... ?"
"In Madam Malkins. She didnt touch him, ut he yelled and jerked his arm away from her when she went to roll up his sleeve. It was his left arm. Hes een randed with the Dark Mark."
Ron and Hermione looked at each other.
"Well..." said Ron, sounding thoroughly unconvinced.
"I think he just wanted to get out of there, Harry," said Hermione.
"He showed Borgin something we couldnt see," Harry pressed on stuornly. "Something that seriously scared Borgin. It was the Mark, I know it... he was showing Borgin who he was dealing with, you saw how seriously Borgin took him!"
Ron and Hermione exchanged another look.
"Im not sure, Harry..."
"Yeah, I still dont reckon You-Know-Who would let Malfoy join..."
Annoyed, ut asolutely convinced he was right, Harry snatched up a pile of filthy Quidditch roes and left the room; Mrs. Weasley had een urging them for days not to leave their washing and packing until the last moment. On the landing he umped into Ginny, who was returning to her room carrying a pile of freshly laundered clothes.
"I wouldnt go in the kitchen just now," she warned him. "Theres a lot of Phlegm around."
"Ill e careful not to slip in it." Harry smiled.
Sure enough, when he entered the kitchen it was to find Fleur sitting at the kitchen tale, in full flow aout plans for her wedding to Bill, while Mrs. Weasley kept watch over a pile of self-peeling sprouts, looking ad-tempered.
"... Bill and I ave almost decided on only two ridesmaids, Ginny and Garielle will look very sweet togezzer. I am theenking of dressing zem in pale gold, pink would of course e orrile with Ginnys air!"
"Ah, Harry!" said Mrs. Weasley loudly, cutting across Fleurs monologue. "Good, I wanted to explain aout the security arrangements for the journey to Hogwarts tomorrow. Weve got Ministry cars again, and there will e Aurors waiting at the station."
"Is Tonks going to e there?" asked Harry, handing over his Quidditch things.
"No, I dont think so, shes een stationed somewhere else from what Arthur said."
"She has let erself go, zat Tonks," Fleur mused, examining her own stunning reflection in the ack of a teaspoon. "A ig mistake if you ask."
"Yes, thank you," said Mrs. Weasley tartly, cutting across Fleur again. "Youd etter get on, Harry, I want the trunks ready tonight, if possile, so we dont have the usual last-minute scramle."
And in fact, their departure the following morning was smoother than usual. The Ministry cars glided up to the front of the Burrow to find them waiting, trunks packed; Hermiones cat, Crookshanks, safely enclosed in his traveling asket; and Hedwig; Rons owl, Pig-widgeon; and Ginnys new purple Pygmy Puff, Arnold, in cages.
"Au revoir, Any," said Fleur throatily, kissing him good-ye. Ron hurried forward, looking hopeful, ut Ginny stuck out her foot and Ron fell, sprawling in the dust at Fleurs feet. Furious, red-faced, and dirt-spattered, he hurried into the car without saying good-ye.
There was no cheerful Hagrid waiting for them at Kings Cross Station. Instead, two grim-faced, earded Aurors in dark Muggle suits moved forward the moment the cars stopped and, flanking the party, marched them into the station without speaking.
"Quick, quick, through the arrier," said Mrs. Weasley, who
seemed a little flustered y this austere efficiency. "Harry had etter go first, with..."
She looked inquiringly at one of the Aurors, who nodded riefly, seized Harrys upper arm, and attempted to steer him toward the arrier etween platforms nine and ten.
"I can walk, thanks," said Harry irritaly, jerking his arm out of the Aurors grip. He pushed his trolley directly at the solid arrier, ignoring his silent companion, and found himself, a second later, standing on platform nine and three-quarters, where the scarlet Hogwarts Express stood elching steam over the crowd.
Hermione and the Weasleys joined him within seconds. Without waiting to consult his grim-faced Auror, Harry motioned to Ron and Hermione to follow him up the platform, looking for an empty compartment.
"We cant, Harry," said Hermione, looking apologetic. "Ron and Ive got to go to the prefects carriage first and then patrol the corridors for a it."
"Oh yeah, I forgot," said Harry.
"Youd etter get straight on the train, all of you, youve only got a few minutes to go," said Mrs. Weasley, consulting her watch. "Well, have a lovely term, Ron..."
"Mr. Weasley, can I have a quick word?" said Harry, making up his mind on the spur of the moment.
"Of course," said Mr. Weasley, who looked slightly surprised, ut followed Harry out of earshot of the others nevertheless.
Harry had thought it through carefully and come to the conclusion that, if he was to tell anyone, Mr. Weasley was the right person; firstly, ecause he worked at the Ministry and was therefore in the est position to make further investigations, and secondly,
ecause he thought that there was not too much risk of Mr. Weasley exploding with anger.
He could see Mrs. Weasley and the grim-faced Auror casting the pair of them suspicious looks as they moved away.
"When we were in Diagon Alley," Harry egan, ut Mr. Weasley forestalled him with a grimace.
"Am I aout to discover where you, Ron, and Hermione disappeared to while you were supposed to e in the ack room of Fred and Georges shop?"
"How did you...?"
"Harry, please. Youre talking to the man who raised Fred and George."
"Er... yeah, all right, we werent in the ack room." "Very well, then, lets hear the worst."
"Well, we followed Draco Malfoy. We used my Invisiility Cloak."
"Did you have any particular reason for doing so, or was it a mere whim?"
"Because I thought Malfoy was up to something," said Harry, disregarding Mr. Weasleys look of mingled exasperation and amusement. "Hed given his mother the slip and I wanted to know why."
"Of course you did," said Mr. Weasley, sounding resigned. "Well? Did you find out why?"
"He went into Borgin and Burkes," said Harry, "and started ullying the loke in there, Borgin, to help him fix something. And he said he wanted Borgin to keep something else for him. He made it sound like it was the same kind of thing that needed fixing. Like they were a pair. And..."
Harry took a deep reath.
"Theres something else. We saw Malfoy jump aout a mile when Madam Malkin tried to touch his left arm. I think hes een randed with the Dark Mark. 1 think hes replaced his father as a Death Eater."
Mr. Weasley looked taken aack. After a moment he said, "Harry, I dout whether You-Know-Who would allow a sixteen-year-old..."
"Does anyone really know what You-Know-Who would or wouldnt do?" asked Harry angrily. "Mr. Weasley, Im sorry, ut isnt it worth investigating? If Malfoy wants something fixing, and he needs to threaten Borgin to get it done, its proaly something Dark or dangerous, isnt it?"
"I dout it, to e honest, Harry," said Mr. Weasley slowly. "You see, when Lucius Malfoy was arrested, we raided his house. We took away everything that might have een dangerous." "I think you missed something," said Harry stuornly. "Well, maye," said Mr. Weasley, ut Harry could tell that Mr. Weasley was humoring him.
There was a whistle ehind them; nearly everyone had oarded the train and the doors were closing.
"Youd etter hurry! said Mr. Weasley, as Mrs. Weasley cried, "Harry, quickly!"
He hurried forward and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley helped him load his trunk onto the train.
"Now, dear, youre coming to us for Christmas, its all fixed with Dumledore, so well see you quite soon," said Mrs. Weasley through the window, as Harry slammed the door shut ehind him and the train egan to move. "You make sure you look after yourself and..."
The train was gathering speed.
"...e good and..." , She was jogging to keep up now.
"...stay safe!"
Harry waved until the train had turned a corner and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were lost to view, then turned to see where the others had got to. He supposed Ron and Hermione were cloistered in the prefects carriage, ut Ginny was a little way along the corridor, chatting to some friends. He made his way toward her, dragging his trunk.
People stared shamelessly as he approached. They even pressed their faces against the windows of their compartments to get a look at him. He had expected an upswing in the amount of gaping and gawping he would have to endure this term after all the "Chosen One" rumors in the Daily Prophet, ut he did not enjoy the sensation of standing in a very right spotlight. He tapped Ginny on the shoulder.
"Fancy trying to find a compartment?"
"I cant, Harry, I said Id meet Dean," said Ginny rightly. "See you later."
"Right," said Harry. He felt a strange twinge of annoyance as she walked away, her long red hair dancing ehind her; he had ecome so used to her presence over the summer that he had almost forgotten that Ginny did not hang around with him, Ron, and Hermione while at school. Then he linked and looked around: He was surrounded y mesmerized girls.
"Hi, Harry!" said a familiar voice from ehind him.
"Neville!" said Harry in relief, turning to see a round-faced oy struggling toward him.
"Hello, Harry," said a girl with long hair and large misty eyes, who was just ehind Neville.
"Luna, hi, how are you?"
"Very well, thank you," said Luna. She was clutching a magazine to her chest; large letters on the front announced that there was a pair of free Spectrespecs inside.
"Quiler still going strong, then?" asked Harry, who felt a certain fondness for the magazine, having given it an exclusive interview the previous year.
"Oh yes, circulations well up," said Luna happily.
"Lets find seats," said Harry, and the three of them set off along the train through hordes of silently staring students. At last they found an empty compartment, and Harry hurried inside gratefully.
"Theyre even staring at us? said Neville, indicating himself and Luna. "Because were with you!"
"Theyre staring at you ecause you were at the Ministry too," said Harry, as he hoisted his trunk into the luggage rack. "Our little adventure there was all over the Daily Prophet, you mustve
seen it."
"Yes, I thought Gran would e angry aout all the pulicity," said Neville, "ut she was really pleased. Says Im starting to live up to my dad at long last. She ought me a new wand, look!"
He pulled it out and showed it to Harry.
"Cherry and unicorn hair," he said proudly. "We think it was one of the last Ollivander ever sold, he vanished next day ... oi, come ack here, Trevor!"
And he dived under the seat to retrieve his toad as it made one of its frequent ids for freedom.
"Are we still doing D.A. meetings this year, Harry?" asked Luna,
who was detaching a pair of psychedelic spectacles from the middle of The Quiler.
"No point now weve got rid of Umridge, is there?" said Harry, sitting down. Neville umped his head against the seat as he emerged from under it. He looked most disappointed.
"I liked the D.A.! I learned loads with you!"
"I enjoyed the meetings too," said Luna serenely. "It was like having friends."
This was one of those uncomfortale things Luna often said and which made Harry feel a squirming mixture of pity and emarrassment. Before he could respond, however, there was a disturance outside their compartment door; a group of fourth-year girls was whispering and giggling together on the other side of the glass.
"You ask him!"
No, you!
"Ill do it!"
And one of them, a old-looking girl with large dark eyes, a prominent chin, and long lack hair pushed her way through the door.
"Hi, Harry, Im Romilda, Romilda Vane," she said loudly and confidently. "Why dont you join us in our compartment? You dont have to sit with them," she added in a stage whisper, indicating Nevilles ottom, which was sticking out from under the seat again as he groped around for Trevor, and Luna, who was now wearing her free Spectrespecs, which gave her the look of a demented, multicolored owl.
"Theyre friends of mine," said Harry coldly.
"Oh," said the girl, looking very surprised. "Oh. Okay."
And she withdrew, sliding the door closed ehind her.
"People expect you 10 have cooler friends than us," said Luna, once again displaying her knack for emarrassing honesty.
"You are cool," said Harry shortly. "None of them was at the Ministry. They didnt fight with me."
"Thats a very nice thing to say," eamed Luna. Then she pushed her Spectrespecs farther up her nose and settled down to read The
Quiler.
"We didnt face him, though," said Neville, emerging from under the seat with fluff and dust in his hair and a resigned-looking Trevor in his hand. "You did. You should hear my gran talk aout you. That Harry Potters got more ackone than the whole Ministry of Magic put together! Shed give anything to have you as a grand-son...
Harry laughed uncomfortaly and changed the suject to OWL. results as soon as he could. While Neville recited his grades and wondered aloud
whether he would e allowed to take a Transfiguration NEWT, with only an "Acceptale," Harry watched him without really listening.
Nevilles childhood had een lighted y Voldemort just as much as Harrys had, ut Neville had no idea how close he had come to having Harrys destiny. The prophecy could have referred to either of them, yet, for his own inscrutale reasons, Voldemort had chosen to elieve that Harry was the one meant.
Had Voldemort chosen Neville, it would e Neville sitting opposite Harry earing the lightning-shaped scar and the weight of the prophecy... Or would it? Would Neville’s mother have died to save him, as Lily had died for Harry? Surely she would... But what if she had een unale to stand etween her son and Voldemort? Would there then have een no "Chosen One" at all? An empty seat where Neville now sat and a scarless Harry who would have een kissed good-ye y his own mother, not Rons?
"You all right, Harry? You look funny," said Neville.
Harry started. "Sorry ... I ..."
"Wrackspurt got you?" asked Luna sympathetically, peering at Harry through her enormous colored spectacles.
"I... what?"
"A Wrackspurt... Theyre invisile. They float in through your ears and make your rain go fuzzy," she said. "I thought I felt one zooming around in here."
She flapped her hands at thin air, as though eating off large invisile moths. Harry and Neville caught each others eyes and hastily egan to talk of Quidditch.
The weather eyond the train windows was as patchy as it had een all summer; they passed through stretches of the chilling mist, then out into weak, clear sunlight. It was during one of the clear spells, when the sun was visile almost directly overhead, that Ron and Hermione entered the compartment at last.
"Wish the lunch trolley would hurry up, Im starving," said Ron longingly, slumping into the seat eside Harry and ruing his stomach. "Hi, Neville. Hi, Luna. Guess what?" he added, turning to Harry. "Malfoy s not doing prefect duty. Hes just sitting in his compartment with the other Slytherins, we saw him when we passed."
Harry sat up straight, interested. It was not like Malfoy to pass up the chance to demonstrate his power as prefect, which he had happily aused all the previous year.
"What did he do when he saw you?"
"The usual," said Ron indifferently, demonstrating a rude hand
gesture. "Not like him, though, is it? Well... that is" -- he did the hand gesture again -- "ut why isnt he out there ullying first years?
"Dunno," said Harry, ut his mind was racing. Didnt this look as though Malfoy had more important things on his mind than ullying younger students?
"Maye he preferred the Inquisitorial Squad," said Hermione. "Maye eing a prefect seems a it tame after that."
"I dont think so," said Harry. "I think hes ..."
But efore he could expound on his theory, the compartment door slid open again and a reathless third-year girl stepped inside.
"Im supposed to deliver these to Neville Longottom and Harry P-Potter," she faltered, as her eyes met Harrys and she turned scarlet. She was holding out two scrolls of parchment tied with violet rion. Perplexed, Harry and Neville took the scroll addressed to each of them and the girl stumled ack out of the compartment.
"What is it?" Ron demanded, as Harry unrolled his.
"An invitation," said Harry.
Harry,
I would e delighted if you would join me for a ite of lunch in compartment C.
Sincerely, Horace
"But what does he want me for?" asked Neville nervously, as though he was expecting detention.
"No idea," said Harry, which was not entirely true, though he had no proof yet that his hunch was correct. "Listen," he added, seized y a sudden rain wave, "lets go under the Invisiility Cloak, then we might get a good look at Malfoy on the way, see what hes up to."
This idea, however, came to nothing: The corridors, which were packed with people on the lookout for the lunch trolley, were impossile to negotiate while wearing the cloak. Harry stowed it regretfully ack in his ag, reflecting that it would have een nice to wear it just to avoid all the staring, which seemed to have increased in intensity even since he had last walked down the train. Every now and then, students would hurtle out of their compartments to get a etter look at him. The exception was Cho Chang, who darted into her compartment when she saw Harry coming. As Harry passed the window, he saw her deep in determined conversation with her friend Marietta, who was wearing a very thick layer of makeup that did not entirely oscure the odd formation of pimples still etched across her face. Smirking slightly, Harry pushed on.
When they reached compartment C, they saw at once that they were not Slughorns only invitees, although judging y the enthusiasm of Slughorns welcome, Harry was the most warmly anticipated.
"Harry, moy!" said Slughorn, jumping up at the sight of him so that his great velvet-covered elly seemed to fill all the remaining space in the compartment. His shiny ald head and great silvery mustache gleamed as rightly in the sunlight as the golden
uttons on his waistcoat. "Good to see you, good to see you! And you must e Mr. Longottom!"
Neville nodded, looking scared. At a gesture from Slughorn, they sat down opposite each other in the only two empty seats, which were nearest the door. Harry glanced around at their fellow guests. He recognized a Slytherin from their year, a tall lack oy with high cheekones and long, slanting eyes; there were also two seventh-year oys Harry did not know and, squashed in the corner eside Slughorn and looking as though she was not entirely sure how she had got there, Ginny.
"Now, do you know everyone?" Slughorn asked Harry and Neville. "Blaise Zaini is in your year, of course --"
Zaini did not make any sign of recognition or greeting, nor did Harry or Neville: Gryffindor and Slytherin students loathed each other on principle.
"This is Cormac McLaggen, perhaps youve come across each other ... ? No?"
McLaggen, a large, wiry-haired youth, raised a hand, and Harry and Neville nodded ack at him.
"... and this is Marcus Bely, I dont know whether ...?"
Bely, who was thin and nervous-looking, gave a strained smile.
"... and this charming young lady tells me she knows you!" Slughorn finished.
Ginny grimaced at Harry and Neville from ehind Slughorns ack.
"Well now, this is most pleasant," said Slughorn cozily. "A chance to get to know you all a little etter. Here, take a napkin. Ive packed my own lunch; the trolley, as I rememer it, is heavy on
licorice wands, and a poor old mans digestive system isnt quite up to such things... Pheasant, Bely?"
Bely started and accepted what looked like half a cold pheasant.
"I was just telling young Marcus here that I had the pleasure of teaching his Uncle Damocles," Slughorn told Harry and Neville, now passing around
a asket of rolls. "Outstanding wizard, outstanding, and his Order of Merlin most well-deserved. Do you see much of your uncle, Marcus?"
Unfortunately, Beiy had just taken a large mouthful of pheasant; in his haste to answer Slughorn he swallowed too fast, turned purple, and egan to choke.
"Anapneo," said Slughorn calmly, pointing his wand at Bely, whose airway seemed to clear at once.
"Not... not much of him, no," gasped Bely, his eyes streaming.
"Well, of course, I daresay hes usy," said Slughorn, looking questioningly at Bely. "I dout he invented the Wolfsane Potion without considerale hard work!"
"I suppose..." said Bely, who seemed afraid to take another ite of pheasant until he was sure that Slughorn had finished with him. "Er... he and my dad dont get on very well, you see, so I dont really know much aout..."
His voice tailed away as Slughorn gave him a cold smile and turned to McLaggen instead.
"Now, you, Cormac," said Slughorn, "I happen to know you see a lot of your Uncle Tierius, ecause he has a rather splendid picture of the two of you hunting nogtails in, I think, Norfolk?"
"Oh, yeah, that was fun, that was," said McLaggen. "We went with Bertie Higgs and Rufus Scrimgeour; this was efore he ecame Minister, oviously ..."
"Ah, you know Bertie and Rufus too?" eamed Slughorn, now offering around a small tray of pies; somehow, Bely was missed out. "Now tell me..."
It was as Harry had suspected. Everyone here seemed to have een invited ecause they were connected to someody well-known or influential... everyone except Ginny. Zaini, who was interrogated after McLaggen, turned out to have a famously eautiful witch for a mother (from what Harry could make out, she had een married seven times, each of her husands dying mysteriously and leaving her mounds of gold). It was Nevilles turn next: This was a very uncomfortale ten minutes, for Nevilles parents, well-known Aurors, had een tortured into insanity y Bellatrix Lestrange and a couple of Death Eater cronies. At the end of Nevilles interview, Harry had the impression that Slughorn was reserving judgment on Neville, yet to see whether he had any of his parents flair.
"And now," said Slughorn, shifting massively in his seat with the air of a compere introducing his star act. "Harry Potter! Where to egin? I feel I arely scratched the surface when we met over the summer!" He contemplated Harry for a moment as though he was a particularly large and succulent piece of pheasant, then said, "The Chosen One, theyre calling you now!"
Harry said nothing. Bely, McLaggen, and Zaini were all staring at him.
"Of course," said Slughorn, watching Harry closely, "there have een rumors for years... I rememer when ... well ... after that terrile night ... Lily ... James ... and you survived ... and the word was that you must have powers eyond the ordinary ..."
Zaini gave a tiny little cough that was clearly supposed to
indicate amused skepticism. An angry voice urst out from ehind Slughorn.
"Yeah, Zaini, ecause youre so talented... at posing..."
"Oh dear!" chuckled Slughorn comfortaly, looking around at Ginny, who was glaring at Zaini around Slughorns great elly. "You want to e careful, Blaise! I saw this young lady perform the most marvelous Bat-Bogey Hex as I was passing her carriage! I wouldnt cross her!"
Zaini merely looked contemptuous.
"Anyway," said Slughorn, turning ack to Harry. "Such rumors this summer. Of course, one doesnt know what to elieve, the Prophet has een known to print inaccuracies, make mistakes ... ut there seems little dout, given the numer of witnesses, that there was quite a disturance at the Ministry and that you were there in the thick of it all!"
Harry, who could not see any way out of this without flatly lying, nodded ut still said nothing. Slughorn eamed at him.
"So modest, so modest, no wonder Dumledore is so fond ... you were there, then? But the rest of the stories ... so sensational, of course, one doesnt know quite what to elieve ... this faled prophecy, for instance ..."
"We never heard a prophecy," said Neville, turning geranium pink as he said it.
"Thats right," said Ginny staunchly. "Neville and I were oth there too, and all this Chosen One ruish is just the Prophet making things up as usual."
"You were oth there too, were you?" said Slughorn with great interest, looking from Ginny to Neville, ut oth of them sat clam-like efore his encouraging smile.
"Yes... well... it is true that the Prophet often exaggerates, of course..." Slughorn said, sounding a little disappointed. "I rememer dear Gwenog telling me (Gwenog Jones, I mean, of course, Captain of the Holyhead Harpies) ..."
He meandered off into a long-winded reminiscence, ut Harry had the distinct impression that Slughorn had not finished with him, and that he had not een convinced y Neville and Ginny.
The afternoon wore on with more anecdotes aout illustrious wizards Slughorn had taught, all of whom had een delighted to join what he called the "Slug Clu" at Hogwarts. Harry could not wait to leave, ut couldnt see how to do so politely. Finally the train emerged from yet another long misty stretch into a red sunset, and Slughorn looked around, linking in the twilight.
"Good gracious, its getting dark already! I didnt notice that theyd lit the lamps! Youd etter go and change into your roes, all of you. McLaggen, you must drop y and orrow that ook on nogtails. Harry, Blaise ... any time youre passing. Same goes for you, miss," he twinkled at Ginny. "Well, off you go, off you go!"
As he pushed past Harry into the darkening corridor, Zaini shot him a filthy look that Harry returned with interest. He, Ginny, and Neville followed Zaini ack along the train.
"Im glad thats over," muttered Neville. "Strange man, isnt he?" "Yeah, he is a it," said Harry, his eyes on Zaini. "How come you ended up in there, Ginny?"
"He saw me hex Zacharias Smith," said Ginny. "You rememer that idiot from Hufflepuff who was in the D.A.? He kept on and on asking aout what happened at the Ministry and in the end he annoyed me so much I hexed him ... when Slughorn came in I thought I was going to got detention, ut he just thought it was ;i really good hex and invited me to lunch! Mad, eh?"
"Better reason for inviting someone than ecause their mothers famous," said Harry, scowling at the ack of Zainis head, "or ecause their uncle..."
But he roke off. An idea had just occurred to him, a reckless ut potentially wonderful idea... In a minutes time, Zaini was going to reenter the Slytherin sixth-year compartment and Malfoy would e sitting there, thinking himself unheard y anyody except fellow Slytherins... If Harry could only enter, unseen, ehind him, what might he not see or hear? True, there was little of the journey left ... Hogsmeade Station had to e less than half an hour away, judging y the wildness of the scenery flashing y the windows ... ut noody else seemed prepared to take Harrys suspicions seriously, so it was down to him to prove them.
"Ill see you two later," said Harry under his reath, pulling out his Invisiility Cloak and flinging it over himself.
"But whatre you ... ?" asked Neville.
"Later!" whispered Harry, darting after Zaini as quietly as possile, though the rattling of the train made such caution almost pointless.
The corridors were almost completely empty now. Nearly everyone had returned to their carriages to change into their school roes and pack up their possessions. Though he was as close as he could get to Zaini without touching him, Harry was not quick enough to slip into the compartment when Zaini opened the door. Zaini was already sliding it shut when Harry hastily stuck out his foot to prevent it closing.
"Whats wrong with this thing?" said Zaini angrily as he smashed the sliding door repeatedly into Harrys foot.
Harry seized the door and pushed it open, hard; Zaini, still clinging on to the handle, toppled over sideways into Gregory Goyles lap, and in the ensuing ruckus, Harry darted into the compartment, leapt onto Zainis temporarily empty seat, and hoisted himself up into the luggage rack. It was fortunate that Goyle and Zaini were snarling at each other, drawing all eyes onto them, for Harry was quite sure his feet and ankles had een revealed as the cloak had flapped around them; indeed, for one horrile moment he thought he saw Malfoys eyes follow his trainer as it whipped upward out of sight. But then Goyle slammed the door shut and flung Zaini off him; Zaini collapsed into his own seat looking ruffled, Vincent Crae returned to his comic, and Malfoy, sniggering, lay ack down across two seats with his head in Pansy Parkinsons lap. Harry lay curled uncomfortaly under the cloak to ensure that every inch of him remained hidden, and watched Pansy stroke the sleek lond hair off Malfoys forehead, smirking as she did so, as though anyone would have loved to have een in her place. The lanterns swinging from the carriage ceiling cast a right light over the scene: Harry could read every word of Craes comic directly
elow him.
"So, Zaini," said Malfoy, "what did Slughorn want?"
"Just trying to make up to well-connected people," said Zaini,
who was still glowering at Goyle. "Not that he managed to find
many."
This information did not seem to please Malfoy. "Who else had he invited?" he demanded.
"McLaggen from Gryffindor," said Zaini.
"Oh yeah, his uncles ig in the Ministry," said Malfoy.
"... someone else called Bely, from Ravenclaw ..."
"Not him, hes a prat!" said Pansy.
"... and Longottom, Potter, and that Weasley girl," finished Zaini.
Malfoy sat up very suddenly, knocking Pansys hand aside.
"He invited Longottom?."
"Well, I assume so, as Longottom was there," said Zaini indifferently.
"Whats Longottom got to interest Slughorn?"
Zaini shrugged.
"Potter, precious Potter, oviously he wanted a look at the Chosen One," sneered Malfoy, "ut that Weasley girl! Whats so special aout her?"
"A lot of oys like her," said Pansy, watching Malfoy out of the corner of her eyes for his reaction. "Even you think shes good-looking, dont you, Blaise, and we all know how hard you are to please!
"I wouldnt touch a filthy little lood traitor like her whatever she looked like," said Zaini coldly, and Pansy looked pleased. Malfoy sank ack across her lap and allowed her to resume the stroking of his hair.
"Well, I pity Slughorns taste. Maye hes going a it senile. Shame, my father always said he was a good wizard in his day. My father used to e a it of a favorite of his. Slughorn proaly hasnt heard Im on the train, or..."
"I wouldnt ank on an invitation," said Zaini. "He asked me aout Notts father when I first arrived. They used to e old
friends, apparently, ut when he heard hed een caught at the Ministry he didnt look happy, and Nott didnt get an invitation, did he? 1 dont think Slughorns interested in Death Eaters."
Malfoy looked angry, ut forced out a singularly humorless laugh.
"Well, who cares what hes interested in? What is he, when you come down to it? Just some stupid teacher." Malfoy yawned ostentatiously. "I
mean, I might not even e at Hogwarts next year, whats it matter to me if some fat old has-een likes me or not?"
"What do you mean, you might not e at Hogwarts next year?" said Pansy indignantly, ceasing grooming Malfoy at once.
"Well, you never know," said Malfoy with the ghost of a smirk. "I might have ... er ... moved on to igger and etter things."
Crouched in the luggage rack under his cloak, Harrys heart egan to race. What would Ron and Hermione say aout this? Crae and Goyle were gawping at Malfoy; apparently they had had no inkling of any plans to move on to igger and etter things. Even Zaini had allowed a look of curiosity to mar his haughty features. Pansy resumed the slow stroking of Malfoy s hair, looking dumfounded.
"Do you mean..."
Malfoy shrugged.
"Mother wants me to complete my education, ut personally, I dont see it as that important these days. I mean, think aout it... When the Dark Lord takes over, is he going to care how many OWLs or N.E.W.T.S anyones got? Of course he isnt. Itll e all aout the kind of service he received, the level of devotion he was shown."
"And you think youll e ale to do something for him?" asked
Zaini scathingly. "Sixteen years old and noi even fully qualified yet?"
"Ive just said, havent I? Maye he doesnt care if Im qualified. Maye the jo he wants me to do isnt something that you need to e qualified for," said Malfoy quietly.
Crae and Goyle were oth sitting with their mouths open like gargoyles. Pansy was gazing down at Malfoy as though she had never seen anything so awe-inspiring.
"I can see Hogwarts," said Malfoy, clearly relishing the effect he had created as he pointed out of the lackened window. "Wed etter get our roes on."
Harry was so usy staring at Malfoy, he did not notice Goyle reaching up for his trunk; as he swung it down, it hit Harry hard on the side of the head. He let out an involuntary gasp of pain, and Malfoy looked up at the luggage rack, frowning.
Harry was not afraid of Malfoy, ut he still did not much like the idea of eing discovered hiding under his Invisiility Cloak y a group of unfriendly Slytherins. Eyes still watering and head still throing, he drew his wand, careful not to disarrange the cloak, and waited, reath held. To his relief, Malfoy seemed to decide that he had imagined the noise; he pulled on his roes like the others, locked his trunk, and as the train slowed to a jerky crawl, fastened a thick new traveling cloak round his neck.
Harry could see the corridors filling up again and hoped that Hermione and Ron would take his things out onto the platform for him; he was stuck where he was until the compartment had quite emptied. At last, with a final lurch, the train came to a complete halt. Goyle threw the door open and muscled his way out
into a crowd of second years, punching them aside; Crae and Zaini followed.
"You go on," Malfoy told Pansy, who was waiting for him with her hand held out as though hoping he would hold it. "I just want to check something."
Pansy left. Now Harry and Malfoy were alone in the compartment. People were filing past, descending onto the dark platform. Malfoy moved over to the compartment door and let down the linds, so that people in the corridor eyond could not peer in. He then ent down over his trunk and opened it again.
Harry peered down over the edge of the luggage rack, his heart pumping a little faster. What had Malfoy wanted to hide from Pansy? Was he aout to see the mysterious roken oject it was so important to mend?
"Petrificus Totalus!"
Without warning, Malfoy pointed his wand at Harry, who was instantly paralyzed. As though in slow motion, he toppled out of the luggage rack and fell, with an agonizing, floor-shaking crash, at Malfoys feet, the Invisiility Cloak trapped eneath him, his whole ody revealed with his legs still curled asurdly into the cramped kneeling position. He couldnt move a muscle; he could only gaze up at Malfoy, who smiled roadly.
"I thought so," he said juilantly. "I heard Goyles trunk hit you. And I thought I saw something white flash through the air after Zaini came ack..."
His eyes lingered for a moment upon Harrys trainers.
"You didnt hear anything I care aout, Potter. But while Ive got you here..."
And he stamped, hard, on Harrys face. Harry felt his nose reak; lood spurted everywhere.
"Thats from my father. Now, lets see..."
Malfoy dragged the cloak out from under Harrys immoilized ody and threw it over him.
"I dont reckon theyll find you till the trains ack in London," he said quietly. "See you around, Potter... or not."
And taking care to tread on Harrys fingers, Malfoy left the compartment.
Chapter 8 -- Victorious Snape
Harry could not move a muscle. He lay there eneath the Invisiility Cloak feeling the lood from his nose flow, hot and wet, over his face, listening to the voices and footsteps in the corridor eyond. His immediate thought was that someone would, surely check the compartments efore the train departed again. But at once came the dispiriting realization that even if someody looked into the compartment, he would e neither seen nor heard. His est hope was that someody else would walk in and step on him.
Harry had never hated Malfoy more than as he lay there, like an asurd turtle on its ack, lood dripping sickeningly into his open mouth. What a stupid situation to have landed himself in... and now the last few footsteps were dying away; everyone was shuffling along the dark platform outside; he could hear the scraping of trunks and loud ale of talk.
Ron and Hermione would think that he had left the train without them. Once they arrived at Hogwarts and took their places in the Great Hall, looked up and down the Gryffindor tale a few times, and finally realized that he was not there, he, no dout, would e halfway ack to London.
He tried to make a sound, even a grunt, ut it was impossile. Then he rememered that some wizards, like Dumledore, could perform spells without speaking, so he tried to summon his wand, which had fallen out of his hand, y saying the words "Accio Wand!" over and over again in his head, ut nothing happened.
He thought he could hear the rustling of the trees that surrounded the lake, and the far-off hoot of an owl, ut no hint of a search eing made or even (he despised himself slightly for hoping it) panicked voices wondering where Harry Potter had gone. A feeling of hopelessness spread through him as he imagined the convoy of thestral-drawn carriages trundling up to the
school and the muffled yells of laughter issuing from whichever carriage Malfoy was riding in, where he could e recounting his attack on Harry to Crae, Goyle, Zaini, and Pansy Parkinson.
The train lurched, causing Harry to roll over onto his side. Now he was staring at the dusty underside of the seats instead of the ceiling. The floor egan to virate as the engine roared into life. The Express was leaving and noody knew he was still on it...
Then he felt his Invisiility Cloak fly off him and a voice overhead said, "Wotcher, Harry."
There was a flash of red light and Harrys ody unfroze; he was ale to push himself into a more dignified sitting position, hastily wipe the lood off his ruised race with the ack of his hand, and raise his head to look up at Tonks, who was holding the Invisiiliiy Cloak she had just pulled away.
Wed etter get out of here, quickly," she said, as the train windows ecame oscured with steam and they egan to move out of the station. "Come on, well jump."
Harry hurried after her into the corridor. She pulled open the train door and leapt onto the platform, which seemed to e sliding underneath them as the train gathered momentum. He followed her, staggered a little on landing, then straightened up in time to see the gleaming scarlet steam engine pick up speed, round the corner, and disappear from view.
The cold night air was soothing on his throing nose. Tonks was looking at him; he felt angry and emarrassed that he had een discovered in such a ridiculous position. Silently she handed him ack the Invisiility Cloak.
"Who did it?"
"Draco Malfoy," said Harry itterly. "Thanks for... well..."
"No prolem," said Tonks, without smiling. From what Harry could see in the darkness, she was as mousy-haired and miserale-lookinng as she had een when he had met her at the Burrow. "I can fix your nose if you stand still."
Harry did not think much of this idea; he had een intending to visit Madam Pomfrey, the matron, in whom he had a little more confidence when it came to Healing Spells, ut it seemed rude to say this, so he stayed stock-still and closed his eyes,
"Episkey" said Tonks.
Harry’s nose felt very hot, and then very cold. He raised a hand and felt gingerly. It seemed to e mended.
"Thanks a lot!"
"Youd etter put that cloak ack on, and we can walk up to the school," said Tonks, still unsmiling. As Harry swung the cloak ack over himself, she waved her wand; an immense silvery four-legged creature erupted from it and streaked off into the darkness.
Was that a Patronus?" asked Harry, who had seen Dumledore send messages like this.
"Yes, Im sending word to the castle that Ive got you or theyll worry. Come on, wed etter not dawdle."
They set off toward the lane that led to the school.
"How did you find me?"
"I noticed you hadnt left the train and I knew you had that cloak. I thought you might e hiding for some reason. When I saw the linds were drawn down on that compartment I thought I’d check."
"But what are you doing here, anyway?" Harry asked.
"Im stationed in Hogsmeade now, to give the school extra protection," said Tonks.
"Is it just you whos stationed up here, or -- ?"
"No, Proudfoot, Savage, and Dawlish are here too."
"Dawlish, that Auror Dumledore attacked last year?"
"Thats right."
They trudged up the dark, deserted lane, following the freshly made carriage tracks. Harry looked sideways at Tonks under his cloak. Last year she had een inquisitive (to the point of eing a little annoying at times), she had laughed easily, she had made jokes. Now she seemed older and much more serious and purposeful. Was this all the effect of what had happened at the Ministry? He reflected uncomfortaly that Hermione would have suggested he say something consoling aout Sirius to her, that it hadnt een her fault at all, ut he couldnt ring himself to do it. He was far from laming her for Siriuss death; it was no more her fault than anyone else’s (and much less than his), ut he did not like talking aout Sirius if he could avoid it. And so they tramped on through the cold night in silence, Tonkss long cloak whispering on the ground ehind them.
Having always traveled there y carriage, Harry had never efore appreciated just how far Hogwarts was from Hogsmeade Station. With great relief he finally saw the tall pillars on either side of the gates, each topped with a winged oar. He was cold, he was hungry and he was quite keen to leave this new, gloomy Tonks ehind. But when he put out a hand to push open the gates, he found them chained shut.
"Alohomora!" he said confidently, pointing his wand at the padlock, ut nothing happened.
"That wont work on these," said Tonks. "Dumledore ewitched them himself."
Harry looked around, I could clim a wall," he suggested.
"No, you couldnt," said Tonks flatly. "Anti-intruder jinxes on all of them. Securitys een tightened a hundredfold this summer."
"Well then," said Harry, starting to feel annoyed at her lack of helpfulness, "I suppose Ill just have to sleep out here and wait for morning."
"Someones coming down for you," said Tonks, "Look."
A lantern was oing at the distant foot of the castle. Harry was so pleased to see it he felt he could even endure Filchs wheezy criticisms of his tardiness and rants aout how his timekeeping would improve with the regular application of thumscrews. It was not until the glowing yellow light was ten feet away from them, and had pulled off his Invisiility Cloak so that he could e seen, that he recognized, with a rush of pure loathing, the uplit hooked nose and long, lack, greasy hair of Severus Snape.
"Well, well, well," sneered Snape, taking out his wand and tapping the padlock once, so that the chains snaked ackward and the gates creaked open. "Nice of you to turn up, Potter, although you have evidently decided that the wearing of school roes would detract from your appearance."
"I couldnt change, I didnt have my --" Harry egan, ut Snape cut across him.
"There is no need to wait, Nymphadora, Potter is quite -- ah
-- safe in my hands."
"I meant Hagrid to get the message," said Tonks, frowning.
"Hagrid was late for the start-of-term feast, just like Potter here, so I took it instead. And incidentally," said Snape, standing ack to allow Harry to pass him, "I was interested to see your new Patronus."
He shut the gates in her face with a loud clang and tapped the chains with his wand again, so that they slithered, clinking, ack into place.
"I think you were etter off with the old one," said Snape, the malice in his voice unmistakale. "The new one looks weak."
As Snape swung the lantern aout, Harry saw, fleetingly, a look of shock and anger on Tonkss face. Then she was covered in darkness once more.
"Good night," Harry called to her over his shoulder, as he egan the walk up to the school with Snape. "Thanks for ... everything,"
"See you, Harry."
Snape did not speak for a minute or so. Harry felt as though his ody was generating waves of hatred so powerful that it seemed incredile that Snape could not feel them urning him. He had loathed Snape from their first encounter, ut Snape had placed himself forever and irrevocaly eyond the possiility of Harrys forgiveness y his attitude toward Sirius. Whatever Dumledore said, Harry had had time to think over the summer, and had concluded that Snapes snide remarks to Sirius aout remaining safely hidden while the rest of the Order of the Phoenix were off fighting Voldemort had proaly een a powerful factor in Sirius rushing off to the Ministry the night that he had died. Harry clung to this notion, ecause it enaled him to lame Snape, which felt satisfying, and also ecause he knew that if anyone was not sorry that Sirius was dead, it was the man now striding next to him in the darkness.
"Fifty points from Gryffindor for lateness, I think," said Snape. "And, let me see, another twenty for your Muggle attire. You know, I don’t elieve any House has ever een in negative figures this early in the term: We havent even started pudding. You might have set a record, Potter."
The fury and hatred uling inside Harry seemed to laze white-hot, ut he would rather have een immoilized all the way
ack to London than tell Snape why he was late.
"I suppose you wanted to make an entrance, did you?" Snape continued. "And with no flying car availale you decided that ursting into the Great Hall halfway through the feast ought to create a dramatic effect."
Still Harry remained silent, though he thought his chest might explode. He knew that Snape had come to fetch him for this, for the few minutes when he could needle and torment Harry without anyone else listening.
They reached the castle steps at last and as the great oaken front doors swung open into the vast flagged entrance hall, a urst of talk and laughter and of tinkling plates and glasses greeted them through the doors standing open into the Great Hail. Harry wondered whether he could slip his Invisiility Cloak ack on, therey gaining his seat at the long Gryffindor tale (which, inconveniently, was the farthest from the entrance hall) without eing noticed. As though he had read Harrys mind, however, Snape said, "No cloak. You can walk in so that everyone sees you, which is what you wanted, Im sure."
Harry turned on the spot and marched straight through the open doors: anything to get away from Snape. The Great Hall with its four long House tales and its staff tale set at the top of the room was decorated as usual with floating candles that made the plates elow glitter and glow. It was all a shimmering lur to Harry, however, who walked so fast that he was passing the Hufflepuff tale efore people really started to stare, and y the time they were standing up to get a good look at him, he had spotted Ron and Hermione, sped along the enches toward them, and forced his way in etween them.
"Whereve you -- limey, whatve you done to your face?" said Ron, goggling at him along with everyone else in the vicinity. I
"Why, whats wrong with it?" said Harry, graing a spoon and squinting at his distorted reflection.
"Youre covered in lood!" said Hermione. "Come here --"
She raised her wand, said "Tergeo!" and siphoned off the dried lood.
"Thanks," said Harry, feeling his now clean face. "Hows my nose looking?
"Normal," said Hermoine anxiously. "Why shouldnt it? Harry, what happened? Weve een terrified!"
"Ill tell you later," said Harry curtly. He was very conscious that Ginny, Neville, Dean, and Seamus were listening in; even Nearly Headless Nick, the Gryffindor ghost, had come floating along the ench to eavesdrop.
"But --" said Hermione.
"Not now, Hermione," said Harry, in a darkly significant voice. He hoped very much that they would all assume he had een involved in something heroic, preferaly involving a couple of Death Eaters and a dementor. Of course, Malfoy would spread the story as wide as he could, ut there was always a chance it wouldnt reach too many Gryffindor ears.
He reached across Ron for a couple of chicken legs and a handful of chips, ut efore he could take them they vanished, to e replaced with puddings.
"You missed the Sorting, anyway," said Hermione, as Ron dived for a large chocolate gateau.
"Hat say anything interesting?" asked Harry, taking a piece of treacle tart.
"More of the same, really . . . advising us all to unite in the face enemies, you know."
"Dumledore mentioned Voldemort at all?"
"Not yet, ut he always saves his proper speech for after the the feast doesnt he? It cant e long now."
"Snape said Hagrid was late for the feast --"
"Youve seen Snape? How come?" said Ron etween frenzied mouthfuls of gateau.
"Bumped into him," said Harry evasively.
"Hagrid was only a few minutes late," said Hermione. "Look, hes waving at you, Harry."
Harry looked up at the staff tale and grinned at Hagrid, who was indeed waving at him. Hagrid had never quite managed to comport himself with the dignity of Professor McGonagall, Head of Gryffindor House, the top of whose head came up to somewhere etween Hagrids elow and shoulder as they were sitting side y side, and who was looking disapprovingly at this enthusiastic greeting. Harry was surprised to see the Divination teacher, Professor Trelawney, sitting on Hagrids other side; she rarely left her tower room, and he had never seen her at the start-of-term feast efore. She looked as odd as ever, glittering with eads and trailing shawls, her eyes magnified to enormous size y her spectacles. Having always considered her a it of a fraud, Harry had een shocked to discover at the end of the previous term that it had een she who had made the prediction that caused Lord Voldemort to kill Harrys parents and attack Harry himself. The knowledge made him even less eager to find himself in her company, thankfully, this year he would e dropping Divination. Her great eaconlike eyes swiveled in his direction; he hastily looked away toward the Slytherin tale. Draco Malfoy was miming the shatterering of a nose to raucous laughter and
applause. Harry dropped his gaze to his treacle tart, his insides urning again. What he would give to fight Malfoy one-on-one...
"So what did Professor Slughorn want?" Hermione asked.
"To know what really happened at the Ministry." said Harry.
"Him and everyone else here," sniffed Hermione. "People were interrogating us aout it on the train, werent they, Ron?"
"Yeah," said Ron. "All wanting to know if you really are the Chosen One --"
"There has een much talk on that very suject even amongst the ghosts," interrupted Nearly Headless Nick, inclining his arely connected head toward Harry so that it woled dangerously on its ruff. "I am considered something of a Potter authority; it is widely known that we are friendly. I have assured the spirit community that I will not pester you for information, however. Harry Potter knows that he can confide in me with complete confidence, I told them. I would rather die than etray his trust."
"Thats not saying much, seeing as youre already dead," Ron oserved.
"Once again, you show all the sensitivity of a lunt axe," said Nearly Headless Nick in affronted tones, and he rose into the air and glided ack toward the far end of the Gryffindor tale just as Dumledore got to his feet at the staff tale. The talk and laughter echoing around the Hall died away almost instantly.
"The very est of evenings to you!" he said, smiling roadly, his arms opened wide as though to emrace the whole room.
"What happened to his hand?" gasped Hermione.
She was not the only one who had noticed. Dumledores right hand was as lackened and dead-looking as it had een on the night he had come to fetch Harry from the Dursleys. Whispers it the room; Dumledore,
interpreting them correctly, merely smiled and shook his purple-and-gold sleeve over his injury.
"Nothing to worry aout," he said airily. "Now ... to our new students, welcome, to our old students, welcome ack! Another year full of magical education awaits you ..."
"His hand was like that when I saw him over the summer,"
Harry whispered to Hermione. "I thought hed have cured it y now, though ... or Madam Pomfrey wouldve done."
"It looks as if its died," said Hermione, with a nauseated expression. "But there are some injuries you cant cure... old curses...and there are poisons without antidotes. . . ."
"...and Mr. Filch, our caretaker, has asked me to say that there is a lanket an on any joke items ought at the shop called Weasleys Wizard Wheezes.
"Those wishing to play for their House Quidditch teams should give their names to their Heads of House as usual. We are also looking for new Quidditch commentators, who should do likewise.
"We are pleased to welcome a new memer of staff this year, Professor Slughorn"-- Slughorn stood up, his ald head gleaming in the candlelight, his ig waistcoated elly casting the tale into shadow -- "is a former colleague of mine who has agreed to resume his old post of Potions master."
"Potions?"
"Potions?"
The word echoed all over the Hall as people wondered wheel they had heard right.
"Potions?" said Ron and Hermione together, turning to stare Harry. "But you said --"
"Professor Snape, meanwhile," said Dumledore, raising voice so that it carried over all the muttering, "will e taking the position of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher."
"No!" said Harry, so loudly that many heads turned in his direction. He did not care; he was staring up at the staff tale, incensed. How could Snape e given the Defense Against the Dark Arts jo after all this time? Hadnt it een widely known for years that Dumledore did not trust him to do it?
"But Harry, you said that Slughorn was going to e teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts!" said Hermione.
"I thought he was!" said Harry, racking his rains to rememer when Dumledore had told him this, ut now that he came to think of it, he was unale to recall Dumledore ever telling him what Slughorn would e teaching.
Snape, who was sitting on Dumledores right, did not stand up his mention of his name; he merely raised a hand in lazy acknowledgment of the applause from the Slytherin tale, yet Harry was sure he could detect a look of triumph on the features he loathed so much.
"Well, theres one good thing," he said savagely. "Snapell e gone y the end of the year."
"What do you mean?" asked Ron.
"That jos jinxed. No ones lasted more than a year... Quirrell actually died doing it... Personally, Im going to keep my fingers crossed for another death..."
"Harry!" said Hermione, shocked and reproachful.
"He might just go ack to teaching Potions at the end of the year," said Ron reasonaly. "That Slughorn loke might not want to stay long-term. Moody didnt."
"Dumledore cleared his throat. Harry, Ron, and Hermione were not the only ones who had een talking; the whole Hall had erupted in a uzz of conversation at the news that Snape had finally achieved his heart’s desire. Seemingly olivious to the sensational nature of the news he had just imparted, Dumledore said nothing more aout staff appointments, ut waited a few seconds to ensure that the silence was asolute efore continuing.
"Now, as everyody in this Hall knows, Lord Voldemort and his followers are once more at large and gaining in strength."
The silence seemed to tauten and strain as Dumledore spoke. Harry glanced at Malfoy. Malfoy was not looking at Dumledore, ut making his fork hover in midair with his wand, as though he found the headmasters words unworthy of his attention.
"I cannot emphasize strongly enough how dangerous the present situation is, and how much care each of us at Hogwarts must take to ensure that we remain safe. The castle’s magical fortifications have een strengthened over the summer, we are protected in new and more powerful ways, ut we must still guard scrupulously against carelessness on the part of any student or memer of staff. I urge you, therefore, to aide y any security restrictions that you teachers might impose upon you, however irksome you might find them -- in particular, the rule that you are not to e out of after hours. I implore you, should you notice anything strange or suspicious within or outside the castle, to report it to a memer of staff immediately. I trust you to conduct yourselves, always, with the utmost regard for your own and others safety."
Dumledores lue eyes swept over the students efore he smiled once more.
"But now, your eds await, as warm and comfortale as you could possily wish, and I know that your top priority is to e well-rested for your lessons tomorrow. Let us therefore say good night. Pip pip!"
With the usual deafening scraping noise, the enches moved ack and the hundreds of students egan to file out of the Great Hall toward their dormitories. Harry, who was in no hurry at all to leave with the gawping crowd, nor to get near enough to Malfoy to allow him to retell the story of the nose-stamping, lagged ehind, pretending to retie the lace on his trainer, allowing most of Gryffindors to draw ahead of him. Hermione had darted ahead to fulfill her prefects duty of shepherding the first years, ut Ron remained with Harry.
"What really happened to your nose?" he asked, once they were at the very ack of the throng pressing out of the Hall, and out of earshot of anyone else.
Harry told him. It was a mark of the strength of their friendship that Ron did not laugh.
"I saw Malfoy miming something to do with a nose," he said darkly.
"Yeah, well, never mind that," said Harry itterly. "Listen to what he was saying efore he found out I was there..."
"Harry had expected Ron to e stunned y Malfoys oasts. With what Harry considered pure pigheadedness, however, Ron was unimpressed.
"Come on, Harry, he was just showing off for Parkinson....
What kind of mission would You-Know-Who have given him?"
"How dyou know Voldemort doesnt need someone at Hogwarts? It wouldnt e the first --"
"I wish yehd stop sayin tha name, Harry," said a reproachful voice ehind them. Harry looked over his shoulder to see Hagtid shaking his head.
"Dumledore uses that name," said Harry stuornly
"Yeah, well, thas Dumledore, innit?" said Hagrid mysteriously.
"So how come yeh were late, Harry? I was worried."
"Got held up on the train," said Harry. "Why were you late?"
"I was with Grawp," said Hagrid happily. "Los track o the time. Hes got a new home up in the mountains now, Dumledore fixed it -- nice ig cave. Hes much happier than he was in the forest. We were havin a good chat."
"Really?" said Harry, taking care not to catch Rons eye; the last time he had met Hagrids half-rother, a vicious giant with a talent for ripping up trees y the roots, his vocaulary had comprised five words, two of which he was unale to pronounce properly.
"Oh yeah, hes really come on," said Hagrid proudly. "Yehll e amazed. Im thinkin o trainin him up as me assistant."
Ron snorted loudly, ut managed to pass it off as a violent sneeze. They were now standing eside the oak front doors.
"Anyway, Ill see yeh tomorrow, firs lessons straight after lunch. Come early an yeh can say hello ter Buck -- I mean, Witherwings!"
Raising an arm in cheery farewell, he headed out of the doors into the darkness.
Harry and Ron looked at each other. Harry could tell that Ron was experiencing the same sinking feeling as himself.
"Youre not taking Care of Magical Creatures, are you?"
Ron shook his head. "And youre not either, are you?"
Harry shook his head too.
"And Hermione," said Ron, "shes not, is she?"
Harry shook his head again. Exactly what Hagrid would say when he realized his three favorite students had given up his suject, he did not like to think.
Chapter 9: The Half-Blood Prince
Harry and Ron met Hermione in the common room efore reakfast next morning. Hoping for some support in his theory, Harry lost no time in telling Hermione what he had overheard Malfoy saying on the Hogwarts Express.
"But he was oviously showing off for Parkinson, wasnt he?" interjected Ron quickly, efore Hermione could say anything.
"Well," she said uncertainly, "I dont know. It would e like Malfoy to make himself seem more important than he is ... ut thats a ig lie to tell..."
"Exactly," said Harry, ut he could nor press the point, ecause so many people were trying to listen in to his conversation, not to mention staring at him and whispering ehind their hands.
"Its rude to point," Ron snapped at a particularly minuscule first-year oy as they joined the queue to clim out of the portrait hole. The oy, who had een muttering something aout Harry ehind his hand to his friend, promptly turned scarlet and toppled out of the hole in alarm. Ron sniggered. "I love eing a sixth year. And were going to e getting free time this year. Whole periods when we can just sit up here and relax."
"Were going to need that time for studying, Ron!" said Hermione, as they set off down the corridor.
"Yeah, ut not today," said Ron. "Todays going to e a real loss, I reckon."
"Hold it!" said Hermione, throwing out an arm and halting a passing fourth year, who was attempting to push past her with a lime-green disk clutched tightly in his hand. "Fanged Frisees anned, hand it over," she told him sternly. The scowling oy handed over the snarling Frisee, ducked under her arm, and took off after his friends. Ron waited for him to vanish, then tugged the Frisee from Hermiones grip.
"Excellent, Ive always wanted one of these."
Hermiones remonstration was drowned y a loud giggle; Lavender Brown had apparently found Rons remark highly amusing. She continued to laugh as she passed them, glancing ack at Ron over her shoulder. Ron looked rather pleased with himself.
The ceiling of the Great Hall was serenely lue and streaked with frail, wispy clouds, just like the squares of sky visile through the high mullioned windows. While they tucked into porridge and eggs and acon, Harry and Ron told Hermione aout their emarassing conversation with Hagrid the previous evening.
"But he cant really think wed continue Care of Magical Creatures!" she said, looking distressed. "I mean, when has any of us expressed . . . you know . . . any enthusiasm?"
"Thats it, though, innit?" said Ron, swallowing an entire fried egg whole. "We were the ones who made the most effort in classes ecause we like
Hagrid. But he thinks we liked the stupid suject. Dya reckon anyones going to go on to N.E.W.T.?"
Neither Harry nor Hermione answered; there was no need. They knew perfectly well that noody in their year would want to continue Care of Magical Creatures. They avoided Hagrids eye and returned his cheery wave only half-heartedly when he left the staff tale ten minutes later.
After they had eaten, they remained in their places, awaiting Professor McGonagalls descent from the staff tale. The distriution of class schedules was more complicated than usual this year, for Professor McGonagall needed first to confirm that everyody had achieved the necessary O.W.L. grades to continue with their chosen N.E.W.T.s.
Hermione was immediately cleared to continue with Charms, Defense Against the Dark Arts, Transfiguration, Herology, Arithmancy, Ancient Runes, and Potions, and shot off to a first period Ancient Runes class without further ado. Neville took a little longer to sort out; his round face was anxious as Professor McGonagall looked down his application and then consulted his O.W.L results.
"Herology, fine," she said. "Professor Sprout will e delighted to see you ack with an Outstanding O.W.L. And you qualify for Defense Against the Dark Arts with Exceeds Expectations. But the prolem is Transfiguration. Im sorry, Longottom, ut an Acceptale really isnt good enough to continue to N.E.W.T. level. Just dont think youd e ale to cope with the coursework."
Neville hung his head. Professor McGonagall peered at him through her square spectacles.
"Why do you want to continue with Transfiguration, anyway? Ive never had the impression that you particularly enjoyed it."
Neville looked miserale and muttered something aout "my grandmother wants."
"Hmph," snorted Professot McGonagall. "Its high time your grandmother learned to e proud of the grandson shes got, rather than the one she thinks she ought to have - particularly after what happened at the Ministry."
Neville turned very pink and linked confusedly; Professor McGonagall had never paid him a compliment efore.
"Im sorry, Longottom, ut I cannot let you into my N.E.W.T. class. I see that you have an Exceeds Expectations in Charm however - why not try for a N.E.W.T. in Charms?"
"My grandmother thinks Charms is a soft option," mumled Neville.
"Take Charms," said Professor McGonagall, "and I shall drop Augusta a line reminding her that just ecause she failed her Charms O.W.L., the suject is not necessarily worthless." Smiling slightly at the look of delighted incredulity on Nevilles face, Professor McGonagall tapped a lank
schedule with the tip of her wand and handed it, now carrying details of his new classes, to Neville.
Professor McGonagall turned next to Parvati Patil, whose first question was whether Firenze, the handsome centaur, was still teaching Divination.
"He and Professor Trelawney are dividing classes etween them this year," said Professor McGonagall, a hint of disapproval in her voice; it was common knowledge that she despised the suject of Divination. "The sixth year is eing taken y Professor Trelawney."
Parvati set off for Divination five minutes later looking slightly crestfallen.
"So, Potter, Potter . . ." said Professor McGonagall, consulting her notes as she turned to Harry. "Charms, Defense Against the Dark Arts, Herology, Transfiguration ... all fine. I must say, I was pleased with your Transfiguration mark, Potter, very pleased. Now, why havent you applied to continue with Potions? I thought it was your amition to ecome an Auror?"
"It was, ut you told me I had to get an Outstanding in my O.W.L., Professor."
"And so you did when Professor Snape was teaching the suject. Professor Slughorn, however, is perfectly happy to accept N.E.W.T. students with Exceeds Expectations at O.W.L. Do you wish to proceed with Potions?"
"Yes," said Harry, "ut I didnt uy the ooks or any ingredients or anything-"
"Im sure Professor Slughorn will e ale to lend you some," said Professor McGonagall. "Very well, Potter, here is your schedule. Oh, y the way- twenty hopefuls have already put down their names for the Gryffindor Quidditch team. I shall pass the list to you in due course and you can fix up trials at your leisure."
A few minutes later, Ron was cleared to do the same sujects as Harry, and the two of them left the tale together.
"Look," said Ron delightedly, gazing ar his schedule, "weve got a free period now. . . and a free period after reak . . . and after lunch . . . excellent."
They returned to the common room, which was empty apart from a half dozen seventh years, including Katie Bell, the only remaining memer of the original Gryffindor Quidditch team that Harry had joined in his first year.
"I thought youd get that, well done," she called over, pointing at the Captains adge on Harrys chest. "Tell me when you call trials!"
"Dont e stupid," said Harry, "you dont need to try out, I watched you play for five years. . . ."
"You mustnt start off like that," she said warningly. "For all you know, theres someone much etter than me out there. Good teams have een ruined efore now ecause Captains just kept playing the old faces, or letting in their friends...."
Ron looked a little uncomfortale and egan playing with the Fanged Frisee Hermione had taken from the fourth-year student. It zoomed around the common room, snarling and attempting to take ites of the tapestry. Crookshankss yellow eyes followed it and he hissed when it came too close.
An hour later they reluctantly left the sunlit common room for the Defense Against the Dark Arts classroom four floors elow. Hermione was already queuing outside, carrying an armful of heavy ooks and looking put-upon.
"We got so much homework for Runes," she said anxiously when Harry and Ron joined her. "A fifteen-inch essay, two translations, and Ive got to read these y Wednesday!"
"Shame," yawned Ron.
"You wait," she said resentfully. "I et Snape gives us loads."
The classroom door opened as she spoke, and Snape stepped into the corridor, his sallow face framed as ever y two curtains of greasy lack hair. Silence fell over the queue immediately.
"Inside," he said.
Harry looked around as they entered. Snape had imposed his personality upon the room already; it was gloomier than usual, as curtains had een drawn over the windows, and was lit y candlelight. New pictures adorned the walls, many of them showing people who appeared to e in pain, sporting grisly injuries or strangely contorted ody parts. Noody spoke as they settled down, looking around at the shadowy, gruesome pictures.
"I have not asked you to take out your ooks," said Snape, closing the door and moving to face the class from ehind his desk; Hermione hastily dropped her copy of Confronting the Faceless ack into her ag and stowed it under her chair. "I wish to speak to you, and I want your fullest attention."
His lack eyes roved over their upturned faces, lingering for a fraction of a second longer on Harrys than anyone elses.
"You have had five teachers in this suject so far, I elieve."
You elieve . . . like you havent watched them all come and go, hoping youd e next, thought Harry scathingly.
"Naturally, these teachers will all have had their own methods and priorities. Given this confusion I am surprised so many of you scraped an O.W.L. in this suject. I shall e even more surprised if all of you manage to keep up with the N.E.W.T. work, which will e more advanced."
Snape set off around the edge of the room, speaking now in a lower voice; the class craned their necks to keep him in view. "The Dark Arts," said Snape, "are many, varied, ever-changing, and eternal. Fighting them is like fighting a many-headed monster, which, each time a neck is severed, sprouts a head even fiercer and cleverer than efore. You are fighting that which is unfixed, mutating, indestructile."
Harry stared at Snape. It was surely one thing to respect the Dark Arts as a dangerous enemy, another to speak of them, as Snape was doing, with a loving caress in his voice?
"Your defenses," said Snape, a little louder, "must therefore e as flexile and inventive as the arts you seek to undo. These pictures" - he indicated a few of them as he swept past - "give a fair representation of what happens to those who suffer, for instance, the Cruciatus Curse" - he waved a hand toward a witch who was clearly shrieking in agony - "feel the Dementors Kiss" - a wizard lying huddled and lank-eyed, slumped against a wall - "or provoke the aggression of the Inferius" - a loody mass upon ground.
"Has an Inferius een seen, then?" said Parvati Patil in a high pitched voice. "Is it definite, is he using them?"
"The Dark Lord has used Inferi in the past," said Snape, "which means you would e well-advised to assume he might use them again. Now. . . "
He set off again around the other side of the classroom toward his desk, and again, they watched him as he walked, his dark roes illowing ehind him. ,
". . . you are, I elieve, complete novices in the use of nonveral spells. What is the advantage of a nonveral spell?"
Hermiones hand shot into the air. Snape took his time looking around at everyody else, making sure he had no choice, efore saying curtly, "Very well - Miss Granger?"
"Your adversary has no warning aout what kind of magic youre aout to perform," said Hermione, "which gives you a split-second advantage."
"An answer copied almost word for word from The Standard Book of Spells, Grade Six," said Snape dismissively (over in the corner, Malfoy sniggered), "ut correct in essentials. Yes, those who progress in using magic without shouting incantations gain an element of surprise in their spell-casting. Not all wizards can do this, of course; it is a question of concentration and mind power which some" - his gaze lingered maliciously upon Harry once more - "lack."
Harry knew Snape was thinking of their disastrous Occlumency lessons of the previous year. He refused to drop his gaze, ut glowered at Snape until Snape looked away.
"You will now divide," Snape went on, "into pairs. One partner will attempt to jinx the other without speaking. The other will attempt to repel the jinx in equal silence. Carry on."
Although Snape did not know it, Harry had taught at least half the class (everyone who had een a memer of the D.A.) how to perform a Shield Charm the previous year. None of them had ever cast the charm without speaking, however. A reasonale amount of cheating ensued; many people were merely whispering the incantation instead of saying it aloud. Typically, ten minutes into the lesson Hermione managed to repel Nevilles muttered Jelly-Legs Jinx without uttering a single word, a feat that would surely have earned her twenty points for Gryffindor from any reasonale teacher, thought Harry itterly, ut which Snape ignored. He swept etween them as they practiced, looking just as much like an overgrown at as ever, lingering to watch Harry and Ron struggling with the task.
Ron, who was supposed to e jinxing Harry, was purple in the face, his lips tightly compressed to save himself from the temptation of muttering the incantation. Harry had his wand raised, waiting on tenterhooks to repel a jinx that seemed unlikely ever to come.
"Pathetic, Weasley," said Snape, after a while. "Here -- let me show you-"
He turned his wand on Harry so fast that Harry reacted instinctively; all thought of nonveral spells forgotten, he yelled, "Protego!"
His Shield Charm was so strong Snape was knocked off-alance and hit a desk. The whole class had looked around and now watched as Snape righted himself, scowling.
"Do you rememer me telling you we are practicing nonveral spells, Potter?"
"Yes," said Harry stiffly.
"Yes, sir."
"Theres no need to call me sir, Professor." The words had escaped him efore he knew what he was saying. Several people gasped, including Hermione. Behind Snape, however, Ron, Dean, and Seamus grinned appreciatively.
"Detention, Saturday night, my office," said Snape. "I do not take cheek from anyone, Potter . . . not even the Chosen One."
"That was rilliant, Harry!" chortled Ron, once they were safely on their way to reak a short while later.
"You really shouldnt have said it," said Hermione, frowning at Ron. "What made you?"
"He tried to jinx me, in case you didnt notice!" fumed Harry. I had enough of that during those Occlumency lessons! Why doesnt he use
another guinea pig for a change? Whats Dumledore playing at, anyway, letting him teach Defense? Did you hear him talking aout the Dark Arts? He loves them! All that unfixed, indestructle stuff –"
"Well," said Hermione, "I thought he sounded a it like you."
"Like me?"
"Yes, when you were telling us what its like to face Voldemort. You said it wasnt just memorizing a unch of spells, you said it was just you and your rains and your guts - well, wasnt that what Snape was saying? That it really comes down to eing rave and quick-thinking?"
Harry was so disarmed that she had thought his words as well worth memorizing as The Standard Book of Spells that he did not argue.
"Harry! Hey, Harry!"
Harry looked around; Jack Sloper, one of the Beaters on last years Gryffindor Quidditch team, was hurrying toward him holding a roll of parchment.
"For you," panted Sloper. "Listen, I heard youre the new Captain. Whenre you holding trials?"
"Im not sure yet," said Harry, thinking privately that Sloper would e very lucky to get ack on the team. "Ill let you know."
"Oh, right. I was hoping itd e this weekend -"
"But Harry was not listening; he had just recognized the thin, slanting writing on the parchment. Leaving Sloper in mid-sentence, he hurried away with Ron and Hermione, unrolling the parchment as he went.
Dear Harry,
I would like to start our private lessons this Saturday. Kindly come along to my office at 8 P.M. I hope you are enjoying your first day ack at school.
Yours sincerely,
Alus Dumledore
P.S. I enjoy Acid Pops.
"He enjoys Acid Pops?" said Ron, who had read the message over Harrys shoulder and was looking perplexed.
"Its the password to get past the gargoyle outside his study," said Harry in a low voice. "Ha! Snapes not going to e pleased. . . . I wont e ale to do his detention!"
He, Ron, and Hermione spent the whole of reak speculating on what Dumledore would teach Harry. Ron thought it most likely to e spectacular jinxes and hexes of the type the Death Eaters would not know. Hermione said such things were illegal, and thought it much more likely that Dumledore wanted to teach Harry advanced Defensive magic. After reak, she went off to Arithmancy while Harry and Ron returned to the common
room where they grudgingly started Snapes homework. This turned out to e so complex that they still had not finished when Hermione joined them for their after-lunch free period (though she consideraly speeded up the process). They had only just finished when the ell rang for the afternoons doule Potions and they eat the familiar path down to the dungeon classroom that had, for so long, een Snapes.
When they arrived in the corridor they saw that there were only a dozen people progressing to N.E.W.T. level. Crae and Goyle had evidently failed to achieve the required O.W.L. grade, ut four Slytherins had made it through, including Malfoy. Four Ravenclaws were there, and one Hufflepuff, Ernie Macmillan, whom Harry liked despite his rather pompous manner.
"Harry," Ernie said portentously, holding out his hand as Harry approached, "didnt get a chance to speak in Defense Against The Dark Arts this morning. Good lesson, I thought, ut Shield Charms are old hat, of course, for us old D.A. lags . . . And how are you, Ron -- Hermione?"
Before they could say more than "fine," the dungeon door opened and Slughorns elly preceded him out of the door. As they filed into the room, his great walrus mustache curved aove his eaming mouth, and he greeted Harry and Zaini with particular enthusiasm.
The dungeon was, most unusually, already full of vapors and odd smells. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sniffed interestedly as they passed large, uling cauldrons. The four Slytherins took a tale together, as did the four
Ravenclaws. This left Harry, Ron, and Hermione to share a tale with Ernie. They chose the one nearest a gold-colored cauldron that was emitting one of the most seductive scents Harry had ever inhaled: Somehow it reminded him simultaneously of treacle tart, the woody smell of a roomstick handle, and something flowery he thought he might have smelled at the Burrow. He found that he was reathing very slowly and deeply and that the potions fumes seemed to e filling him up like drink. A great contentment stole over him; he grinned across at Ron, who grinned ack lazily.
"Now then, now then, now then," said Slughorn, whose massive outline was quivering through the many shimmering vapors. "Scales out, everyone, and potion kits, and dont forget your copies
of Advanced Potion-Making. . . ."
"Sir?" said Harry, raising his hand.
"Harry, moy?"
"I havent got a ook or scales or anything - nors Ron - we didnt realize wed e ale to do the N.E.W.T., you see -"
"Ah, yes, Professor McGonagall did mention . . . not to worry, my dear oy, not to worry at all. You can use ingredients from the store cupoard today, and Im sure we can lend you some scales, and weve got a small stock of old ooks here, theyll do until you can write to Flourish and Blotts. . . ."
Slughorn strode over to a corner cupoard and, after a moments foraging, emerged with two very attered-looking copies of Advanced Potion-Making y Liatius Borage, which he gave to Harry and Ron along with two sets of tarnished scales.
"Now then," said Slughorn, returning to the front of the class and inflating his already ulging chest so that the uttons on his waistcoat threatened to urst off, "Ive prepared a few potions for you to have a look at, just out of interest, you know. These are the kind of thing you ought to e ale to make after completing your N.E.W.T.s. You ought to have heard of em, even if you havent made em yet. Anyone tell me what this one is?"
He indicated the cauldron nearest the Slytherin tale. Harry raised himself slighty in his seat and saw what looked like plain water oiling away inside it.
Hermiones well-practiced hand hit the air efore anyody elses; Slughorn pointed at her.
"Its Veritaserum, a colorless, odorless potion thar forces the drinker to tell the truth," said Hermione.
"Very good, very good!" said Slughorn happily. "Now," he continued, pointing at the cauldron nearest the Ravenclaw tale, "this one here is pretty well known... Featured in a few Ministry leaflets lately too... Who can - ?"
Hermiones hand was fastest once more.
"lts Polyjuice Potion, sir," she said.
Harry too had recognized the slow-uling, mudlike sustance the second cauldron, ut did not resent Hermione getting the credit for answering the question; she, after all, was the one who had succeeded in making it, ack in their second year. "Excellent, excellent! Now, this one here . . . yes, my dear?" said Slughorn, now looking slightly emused, as Hermiones hand punched the air again.
"Its Amortentia!"
"It is indeed. Ir seems almost foolish to ask," said Slughorn, who was looking mightily impressed, "ut I assume you know what it does?"
"Its the most powerful love porion in the world!" said Hermione.
"Quite right! You recognized it, I suppose, y its distinctive mother-of-pearl sheen?"
"And the steam rising in characteristic spirals," said Hermione enthusiastically, "and its supposed to smell differently to each of according to what attracts us, and I can smell freshly mown grass and new parchment and -"
But she turned slightly pink and did not complete the sentence.
May I ask your name, my dear?" said Slughorn, ignoring Hermiones emarrassment.
"Hermione Granger, sir."
"Granger? Granger? Can you possily e related to Hector Dagworth-Granger, who founded the Most Extraordinary Society of Potioneers?"
"No. I dont think so, sir. Im Muggle-orn, you see."
Harry saw Malfoy lean close to Nott and whisper something; oth of them sniggered, ut Slughorn showed no dismay; on the contrary, he eamed and looked from Hermione to Harry, who was sitting next to her.
"Oho! ‘One of my est friends is Muggle-orn, and shes the est in our year! Im assuming this is the very friend of whom you spoke, Harry?"
"Yes, sir," said Harry.
"Well, well, take twenty well-earned points for Gryffindor, Miss Granger," said Slughorn genially.
Malfoy looked rather as he had done the time Hermione had punched him in the face. Hermione turned to Harry with a radiant expression and whispered, "Did you really tell him Im the est in the year? Oh, Harry!"
"Well, whats so impressive aout that?" whispered Ron, who for some reason looked annoyed. "You are the est in the year - Idve told him so if hed asked me!"
Hermione smiled ut made a "shhing" gesture, so that they could hear what Slughorn was saying. Ron looked slightly disgruntled.
"Amortentia doesnt really create love, of course. It is impossile to manufacture or imitate love. No, this will simply cause a powerful infatuation or osession. It is proaly the most dangerous and powerful potion in this room - oh yes," he said, nodding gravely at Malfoy and Nott, oth of whom were smirking skeptically. "When you have seen as much of life as I have, you will not underestimate the power of osessive love."
"And now," said Slughorn, "it is time for us to start work."
"Sir, you havent told us whats in this one," said Ernie Macmillan, pointing at a small lack cauldron standing on Slughorns desk. The potion within was splashing aout merrily; it was the color of molten gold, and large drops were leaping like goldfish aove the surface, though not a particle had spilled.
"Oho," said Slughorn again. Harry was sure that Slughorn had not forgotten the potion at all, ut had waited to e asked for dramatic effect. "Yes. That. Well, that one, ladies and gentlemen, is a most curious little potion called Felix Felicis. I take it," he turned, smiling, to look at
Hermione, who had let out an audile gasp, "that you know what Felix Felicis does, Miss Granger?"
"Its liquid luck," said Hermione excitedly. "It makes you lucky!"
The whole class seemed to sit up a little straighter. Now all Harry could see of Malfoy was the ack of his sleek lond head, ecause he was at last giving Slughorn his full and undivided attention.
"Quite right, take another ten points for Gryffindor. Yes, its a funny little potion, Felix Felicis," said Slughorn. "Desperately tricky to make, and disastrous to get wrong. However, if rewed correctly, as this has een, you will find that all your endeavors tend to succeed ... at least until the effects wear off."
"Why dont people drink it all the time, sir?" said Terry Boot eagerly.
"Because if taken in excess, it causes giddiness, recklessness, and dangerous overconfidence," said Slughorn. "Too much of a good thing, you know. . . highly toxic in large quantities. But taken sparingly, and very occasionally . . ."
"Have you ever taken it, sir?" asked Michael Corner with great interest.
"Twice in my life," said Slughorn. "Once when I was twenty-four, once when I was fifty-seven. Two talespoonfuls taken with reakfast. Two perfect days."
He gazed dreamily into the distance. Whether he was playacting or not, thought Harry, the effect was good.
"And that," said Slughorn, apparently coming ack to earth, "is what I shall e offering as a prize in this lesson."
There was silence in which every ule and gurgle of the surrounding potions seemed magnified tenfold.
"One tiny ottle of Felix Felicis," said Slughorn, taking a minuscule glass ottle with a cork in it out of his pocket and showing it to them all. "Enough for twelve hours luck. From dawn till dusk, you will e lucky in everything you attempt."
"Now, I must give you warning that Felix Felicis is a anned sustance in organized competitions . . . sporting events, for instance, examinations, or elections. So the winner is to use it on an ordinary day only . . . and watch how that ordinary day ecomes extraordinary!"
"So," said Slughorn, suddenly risk, "how are you to win this faulous prize? Well, y turning to page ten of Advanced Potion Making. We have a little over an hour left to us, which should e time for you to make a decent attempt at the Draught of Living Death. I know it is more complex than anything you have attempted efore, and I do not expect a perfect potion from anyody. The person who does est, however, will win little Felix here. Off you go!"
There was a scraping as everyone drew their cauldrons toward them and some loud clunks as people egan adding weights to their scales, ut noody spoke. The concentration within the room was almost tangile. Harry saw Malfoy riffling feverishly through his copy of Advanced Potion-Making., It could not have een clearer that Malfoy really wanted that lucky day. Harry ent swiftly over the tattered ook Slughorn had lent him.
To his annoyance he saw that the previous owner had scriled all over the pages, so that the margins were as lack as the printed portions. Bending low to decipher the ingredients (even here, the previous owner had made annotations and crossed things out) Harry hurried off toward the store cupoard to find what he needed. As he dashed ack to his cauldron, he saw Malfoy cutting up Valerian roots as fast as he could.
Everyone kept glancing around at what the rest of the class was doing; this was oth an advantage and a disadvantage of Potions, that it was hard to keep your work private. Within ten minutes, the whole place was full of luish steam. Hermione, of course, seemed to have progressed furthest. Her potion already resemled the "smooth, lack currant-colored liquid" mentioned as the ideal halfway stage.
Having finished chopping his roots, Harry ent low over his ook again. It was really very irritating, having to try and decipher the directions under all the stupid scriles of the previous owner, who for some reason had taken issue with the order to cut up the sopophorous ean and had written in the alternative instruction:
Crush with flat side of silver dagger,
releases juice etter than cutting.
"Sir, I think you knew my grandfather, Araxas Malfoy?" Harry looked up; Slughorn was just passing the Slytherin tale.
"Yes," said Slughorn, without looking at Malfoy, "I was sorry to hear he had died, although of course it wasnt unexpected, dragon pox at his age..."
And he walked away. Harry ent ack over his cauldron, smirking. He could tell that Malfoy had expected to e treated like Harry or Zaini; perhaps even hoped for some preferential treatment of the type he had learned to expect from Snape. It looked as though Malfoy would have to rely on nothing ut talent to win the ottle of Felix Felicis.
The sopophorous ean was proving very difficult to cut up. Harry turned to Hermione.
"Can I orrow your silver knife?"
She nodded impatiently, not taking her eyes off her potion, which was still deep purple, though according to the ook ought to e turning a light shade of lilac y now.
Harry crushed his ean with the flat side of the dagger. To his astonishment, it immediately exuded so much juice he was amazed the shriveled ean could have held it all.
Hastily scooping it all into the cauldron he saw, to his surprise, that the potion immediately turned exactly the shade of lilac descried y the textook.
His annoyance with the previous owner vanishing on the spot, Harry now squinted at the next line of instructions. According the ook, he had to stir counterclockwise until the potion turned clear as water. According to the addition the previous owner made, however, he ought to add a clockwise stir after every seventh counterclockwise stir. Could the old owner e right twice?
Harry stirred counterclockwise, held his reath, and stirred once clockwise. The effect was immediate. The potion turned pale pink.
"How are you doing that?" demanded Hermione, who was redfaced and whose hair was growing ushier and ushier in the fumes from her cauldron; her potion was still resolutely purple.
"Add a clockwise stir -"
"No, no, the ook says counterclockwise!" she snapped.
Harry shrugged and continued what he was doing. Seven stirs counterdockwise, one clockwise, pause . . . seven stirs counterclockwise, one stir clockwise . . .
Across the tale, Ron was cursing fluently under his reath; his potion looked like liquid licorice. Harry glanced around. As far as he could see, no one elses potion had turned as pale as his. He felt elated, something that had certainly never happened efore in this dungeon.
"And times . . . up!" called Slughorn. "Stop stirring, please!"
Slughorn moved slowly among the tales, peering into cauldrons. He made no comment, ut occasionally gave the potions a stir or a sniff. At last he reached the tale where Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ernie were sitting. He smiled ruefully at the tarlike sustance in Rons cauldron. He passed over Ernies navy concoction. Hermiones potion he gave an approving nod. Then he saw Harrys, and a look of incredulous delight spread over his face.
"The clear winner!" he cried to the dungeon. "Excellent, excellent, Harry! Good lord, its clear youve inherited your mothers talent. She was a da hand at Potions, Lily was! Here you are, then, here you are - one ottle of Felix Felicis, as promised, and use it well!"
Harry slipped the tiny ottle of golden liquid into his inner pocket, feeling an odd comination of delight at the furious looks on the Slytherins faces and guilt at the disappointed expression on Hermiones. Ron looked simply dumfounded.
"How did you do that?" he whispered to Harry as they left the dungeon.
"Got lucky, I suppose," said Harry, ecause Malfoy was within earshot.
Once they were securely ensconced at the Gryffindor tale for dinner, however, he felt safe enough to tell them. Hermiones face ecame stonier with every word he uttered.
"I spose you think I cheated?" he finished, aggravated y her expression.
"Well, it wasnt exactly your own work, was it?" she said stiffly.
"He only followed different instructions to ours," said Ron, "Couldve een a catastrophe, couldnt it? But he took a risk and it paid off." He heaved a sigh. "Slughorn couldve handed me that ook, ut no, I get the one no ones ever written on. Puked on, y the look of page fifty-two, ut-"
"Hang on," said a voice close y Harrys left ear and he caught a sudden waft of that flowery smell he had picked up in Slughorns dungeon. He looked around and saw that Ginny had joined them. "Did I hear right? Youve een taking orders from something someone wrote in a ook, Harry?"
She looked alarmed and angry. Harry knew what was on her mind at once.
"Its nothing," he said reassuringly, lowering his voice. "Its not like, you know, Riddles diary. Its just an old textook someones scriled on."
"But youre doing what it says?"
"I just tried a few of the tips written in the margins, honestly, Ginny, theres nothing funny -"
"Ginnys got a point," said Hermione, perking up at once. "We ought to check that theres nothing odd aout it. I mean, all these funny instructions, who knows?"
"Hey!" said Harry indignantly, as she pulled his copy of Advanced Potion-Making out of his ag and raised her wand. "Specialis Revelio!" she said, rapping it smartly on the front cover. Nothing whatsoever happened. The ook simply lay there, looking old and dirty and dog-eared.
"Finished?" said Harry irritaly. "Or dyou want to wait and see if it does a few ackflips?"
"It seems all right," said Hermione, still staring at the ook suspiciously. "I mean, it really does seem to e ... just a textook."
"Good. Then Ill have it ack," said Harry, snatching it off the tale, ut it slipped from his hand and landed open on the floor. Noody else was looking. Harry ent low to retrieve the ook, and as he did so, he saw something scriled along the ottom of the ack cover in the same small,
cramped handwriting as the instructions that had won him his ottle of Felix Felicis, now safely hidden inside a pair of socks in his trunk upstairs.
This ook is the property of the Half Blood Prince.
Chapter 10: The Hour of Gaunt
For or the rest of the weeks Potions lessons Harry continued to follow the Half-Blood Princes instructions wherever they deviated from Liatius Borages, with the result that y their fourth lesson Slughorn was raving aout Harrys ailities, saying that he had rarely taught anyone so talented. Neither Ron nor Hermione was delighted y this. Although Harry had offered to share his ook with oth of them, Ron had more difficulty deciphering the handwriting than Harry did, and could not keep asking Harry to read aloud or it might look suspicious. Hermione, meanwhile, was resolutely plowing on with what she called the "official" instructions, ut ecoming increasingly ad-tempered as they yielded poorer results than the Princes.
Harry wondered vaguely who the Half-Blood Prince had een. Although the amount of homework they had een given prevented him from reading the whole of his copy of Advanced Potion-Making, he had skimmed through it sufficiently to see that there was arely a page on which the Prince had not made additional notes, not all of them concerned with potion-making. Here and there were directions for what looked like spells that the Prince had made up himself.
"Or herself," said Hermione irritaly, overhearing Harry pointing some of these out to Ron in the common room on Saturday evening. "It might have een a girl. I think the handwriting looks more like a girls than a oys."
"The Half-Blood Prince, he was called," Harry said. "How many girls have een Princes?"
Hermione seemed to have no answer to this. She merely scowled and twitched her essay on The Principles of Rematerialization away from Ron, who was trying to read it upside down.
Harry looked at his watch and hurriedly put the old copy of Advanced Potion-Making ack into his ag.
"Its five to eight, Id etter go, Ill e late for Dumledore."
"Ooooh!" gasped Hermione, looking up at once. "Good luck! Well wait up, we want to hear what he teaches you!"
"Hope it goes okay," said Ron, and the pair of them watched Harry leave through the portrait hole.
Harry proceeded through deserted corridors, though he had to step hastily ehind a statue when Professor Trelawney appeared around a corner, muttering to herself as she shuffled a pack of dirty-looking playing cards, reading them as she walked.
"Two of spades: conflict," she murmured, as she passed the place where Harry crouched, hidden. "Seven of spades: an ill omen. Ten of spades: violence. Knave of spades: a dark young man, possily trouled, one who dislikes the questioner --"
She stopped dead, right on the other side of Harrys statue.
"Well, that cant e right," she said, annoyed, and Harry heard her reshuffling vigorously as she set off again, leaving nothing ut a whiff of cooking sherry ehind her. Harry waited until he was quite sure she had gone, then hurried off again until he reached the spot in the seventh-floor corridor where a single gargoyle stood against the wall.
"Acid Pops," said Harry, and the gargoyle leapt aside; the wall ehind it slid apart, and a moving spiral stone staircase was revealed, onto which Harry stepped, so that he was carried in smooth circles up to the door with the rass knocker that led to Dumledores Office.
Harry knocked.
"Come in," said Dumledore s voice.
"Good evening, sir," said Harry, walking into the headmasters office.
"Ah, good evening, Harry. Sit down," said Dumledore, smiling. "I hope youve had an enjoyale first week ack at school?" "Yes, thanks, sir," said Harry.
"You must have een usy, a detention under your elt already!" "Er," egan Harry awkwardly, ut Dumledore did not look too stern.
"I have arranged with Professor Snape that you will do your detention next Saturday instead."
"Right," said Harry, who had more pressing matters on his mind than Snapes detention, and now looked around surreptitiously for some indication of what Dumledore was planning to do with him this evening. The circular office looked just as it always did; the delicate silver instruments stood on spindle-legged tales, puff-ing smoke and whirring; portraits of previous headmasters and headmistresses dozed in their frames, and Dumledores magnificent phoenix, Fawkes, stood on his perch ehind the door, watching Harry with right interest. It did not even look as though Dumledore had cleared a space for dueling practice.
"So, Harry," said Dumledore, in a usinesslike voice. "You have een wondering, I am sure, what I have planned for you during these -- for want of a etter word -- lessons?"
"Yes, sir."
"Well, I have decided that it is time, now that you know what prompted Lord Voldemort to try and kill you fifteen years ago, for you to e given certain information." There was a pause.
"You said, at the end of last term, you were going to tell me everything," said Harry. It was hard to keep a note of accusation from his voice. "Sir," he added.
"And so I did," said Dumledore placidly. "I told you everything I know. From this point forth, we shall e leaving the firm foundation of fact and
journeying together through the murky marshes of memory into thickets of wildest guesswork. From here on in, Harry, I may e as woefully wrong as Humphrey Belcher, who elieved the time was ripe for a cheese cauldron."
"But you think youre right?" said Harry.
"Naturally I do, ut as I have already proven to you, I make mistakes like the next man. In fact, eing -- forgive me -- rather cleverer than most men, my mistakes tend to e correspondingly huger."
"Sir," said Harry tentatively, "does what youre going to tell me have anything to do with the prophecy? Will it help me . . . survive?"
"It has a very great deal to do with the prophecy," said Dumledore, as casually as if Harry had asked him aout the next days weather, "and I certainly hope that it will help you to survive."
Dumledore got to his feet and walked around the desk, past Harry, who turned eagerly in his seat to watch Dumledore ending over the cainet eside the door. When Dumledore straightened up, he was holding a familiar shallow stone asin etched with odd markings around its rim. He placed the Pensieve on the desk in front of Harry.
"You look worried."
Harry had indeed een eyeing the Pensieve with some apprehension. His previous experiences with the odd device that stored and revealed thoughts
and memories, though highly instructive, had also een uncomfortale. The last time he had distured its contents, he had seen much more than he would have wished. But Dumledore was smiling.
"This time, you enter the Pensieve with me . . . and, even more unusually, with permission."
"Where are we going, sir?"
"For a trip down Bo Ogdens memory lane," said Dumledore, pulling from his pocket a crystal ottle containing a swirling silvery-white sustance.
"Who was Bo Ogden?"
"He was employed y the Department of Magical Law Enforcement," said Dumledore. "He died some time ago, ut not efore I had tracked him down and persuaded him to confide these recollections to me. We are aout to accompany him on a visit he made in the course of his duties. If you will stand, Harry ..."
But Dumledore was having difficulty pulling out the stopper of the crystal ottle: His injured hand seemed stiff and painful.
"Shall --shall I, sir?"
"No matter, Harry --"
Dumledore pointed his wand at the ottle and the cork flew out.
"Sir -- how did you injure your hand?" Harry asked again, looking at the lackened fingers with a mixture of revulsion and pity.
"Now is not the moment for that story, Harry. Not yet. We have an appointment with Bo Ogden."
Dumledore tipped the silvery contents of the ottle into the Pensieve, where they swirled and shimmered, neither liquid nor gas. "After you," said Dumledore, gesturing toward the owl. Harry ent forward, took a deep reath, and plunged his face into the silvery sustance. He felt his feet leave the office floor; he was falling, falling through whirling darkness and then, quite sud-denly, he was linking in dazzling sunlight. Before his eyes had adjusted, Dumledore landed eside him.
They were standing in a country lane ordered y high, tangled hedgerows, eneath a summer sky as right and lue as a forget-me-not. Some ten feet in front of them stood a short, plump man wearing enormously thick glasses that reduced his eyes to molelike specks. He was reading a wooden signpost that was sticking out of the ramles on the left-hand side of the road. Harry knew this must e Ogden; he was the only person in sight, and he was also wearing the strange assortment of clothes so often chosen y inexperienced wizards trying to look like Muggles: in this case, a frock coat and spats over a striped one-piece athing costume. Before
Harry had time to do more than register his izarre appearance, however, Ogden had set off at a risk walk down the lane.
Dumledore and Harry followed. As they passed the wooden sign, Harry looked up at its two arms. The one pointing ack the way they had come read: Great Hangleton, 5 miles. The arm pointing after Ogden said Little Hangleton, 1 mile.
They walked a short way with nothing to see ut the hedgerows, the wide lue sky overhead and the swishing, frock-coated figure ahead. Then the lane curved to the left and fell away, sloping steeply down a hillside, so that they had a sudden, unexpected view of a whole valley laid out in front of them. Harry could see a village, undoutedly Little Hangleton, nestled etween two steep hills, its church and graveyard clearly visile. Across the valley, set on the opposite hillside, was a handsome manor house surrounded y a wide expanse of velvety green lawn.
Ogden had roken into a reluctant trot due to the steep downward slope. Dumledore lengthened his stride, and Harry hurried to keep up. He thought Little Hangleton must e their final destination and wondered, as he had done on the night they had found Slughorn, why they had to approach it from such a distance. He soon discovered that he was mistaken in thinking that they were going to the village, however. The lane curved to the right and when they rounded the corner, it was to see the very edge of Ogdens frock coat vanishing through a gap in the hedge.
Dumledore and Harry followed him onto a narrow dirt track ordered y higher and wilder hedgerows than those they had left ehind. The path was crooked, rocky, and potholed, sloping down-hill like the last one, and it seemed to e heading for a patch of dark trees a little elow them. Sure enough, the track soon opened up at the copse, and Dumledore and Harry came to a halt ehind Ogden, who had stopped and drawn his wand.
Despite the cloudless sky, the old trees ahead cast deep, dark, cool shadows, and it was a few seconds efore Harrys eyes discerned the uilding half-hidden amongst the tangle of trunks. It seemed to him a very strange location to choose for a house, or else an odd decision to leave the trees growing neary, locking all light and the view of the valley elow. He wondered whether it was inhaited; its walls were mossy and so many tiles had fallen off the roof that the rafters were visile in places. Nettles grew all around it, their tips reaching the windows, which were tiny and thick with grime. Just as he had concluded that noody could possily live there, however, one of the windows was thrown open with a clatter, and a thin trickle of steam or smoke issued from it, as though someody was cooking.
Ogden moved forward quietly and, it seemed to Harry, rather cautiously. As the dark shadows of the trees slid over him, he stopped again, staring at the front door, to which someody had nailed a dead snake.
Then there was a rustle and a crack, and a man in rags dropped from the nearest tree, landing on his feet right in front of Ogden, who leapt ackward so fast he stood on the tails of his frock coat and stumled.
"Youre not welcome."
The man standing efore them had thick hair so matted with dirt it could have een any color. Several of his teeth were missing. His eyes were small and dark and stared in opposite directions. He might have looked comical, ut he did not; the effect was frighten-ing, and Harry could not lame Ogden for acking away several more paces efore he spoke.
"Er -- good morning. Im from the Ministry of Magic --" "Youre not welcome."
"Er -- Im sorry -- I dont understand you," said Ogden nervously.
Harry thought Ogden was eing extremely dim; the stranger was making himself very clear in Harrys opinion, particularly as he was randishing a wand in one hand and a short and rather loody knife in the other.
"You understand him, Im sure, Harry?" said Dumledore quietly. "Yes, of course," said Harry, slightly nonplussed. "Why cant Ogden -- ?"
But as his eyes found the dead snake on the door again, he suddenly understood.
"Hes speaking Parseltongue?"
"Very good," said Dumledore, nodding and smiling.
The man in rags was now advancing on Ogden, knife in one hand, wand in the other.
"Now, look --" Ogden egan, ut too late: There was a ang, and Ogden was on the ground, clutching his nose, while a nasty yellowish goo squirted from etween his fingers.
"Morfin!" said a loud voice.
An elderly man had come hurrying out of the cottage, anging the door ehind him so that the dead snake swung pathetically. This man was shorter than the first, and oddly proportioned; his shoulders were very road and his arms overlong, which, with his right rown eyes, short scruy hair, and wrinkled face, gave him the look of a powerful, aged monkey. He came to a halt eside the man with the knife, who was now cackling with laughter at the sight of Ogden on the ground.
"Ministry, is it?" said the older man, looking down at Ogden. "Correct!" said Ogden angrily, daing his face. "And you, I take it, are Mr. Gaunt?"
"Sright," said Gaunt. "Got you in the face, did he?" "Yes, he did!" snapped Ogden.
"Shouldve made your presence known, shouldnt you?" said Gaunt aggressively. "This is private property. Cant just walk in here and not expect my son to defend himself."
"Defend himself against what, man?" said Ogden, clamering ack to his feet.
"Busyodies. Intruders. Muggles and filth." Ogden pointed his wand at his own nose, which was still issuing large amounts of what looked like yellow pus, and the flow stopped at once. Mr. Gaunt spoke out of the corner of his mouth to Morfin. "Get in the house. Dont argue."
This time, ready for it, Harry recognized Parseltongue; even while he could understand what was eing said, he distinguished the weird hissing noise that was all Ogden could hear. Morfin seemed to e on the point of disagreeing, ut when his father cast him a threatening look he changed his mind, lumering away to the cottage with an odd rolling gait and slamming the front door ehind him, so that the snake swung sadly again.
"Its your son Im here to see, Mr. Gaunt," said Ogden, as he mopped the last of the pus from the front of his coat. "That was Morfin, wasnt it?"
"Ah, that was Morfin," said the old man indifferently. "Are you pure-lood?" he asked, suddenly aggressive.
"Thats neither here nor there," said Ogden coldly, and Harry felt his respect for Ogden rise. Apparently Gaunt felt rather differently.
He squinted into Ogden’s face and muttered, in what was clearly supposed to e an offensive tone, "Now I come to think aout it, Ive seen noses like yours down in the village."
"I dont dout it, if your son’s een let loose on them," said Ogden. "Perhaps we could continue this discussion inside?"
"Inside?"
"Yes, Mr. Gaunt. Ive already told you. Im here aout Morfin. We sent an owl --"
"Ive no use for owls," said Gaunt. "I dont open letters."
"Then you can hardly complain that you get no warning of visitors," said Ogden tartly. "I am here following a serious reach of Wizarding law, which occurred here in the early hours of this morning --"
"All right, all right, all right!" ellowed Gaunt. "Come in the leeding house, then, and much good itll do you!"
The house seemed to contain three tiny rooms. Two doors led off the main room, which served as kitchen and living room com-ined. Morfin was sitting in a filthy armchair eside the smoking fire, twisting a live adder etween his thick fingers and crooning softly at it in Parseltongue:
Hissy, hissy, little snakey,
Slither on the floor
You e good to Morfin
Or hell nail you to the door.
There was a scuffling noise in the corner eside the open window, and Harry realized that there was someody else in the room, a girl whose ragged gray dress was the exact color of the dirty stone wall ehind her. She was standing eside a steaming pot on a grimy lack stove, and was fiddling around with the shelf of squalid-looking pots and pans aove it. Her hair was lank and dull and she had a plain, pale, rather heavy face. Her eyes, like her rothers, stared in opposite directions. She looked a little cleaner than the two men, ut Harry thought he had never seen a more defeated-looking person.
"Mdaughter, Merope," said Gaunt grudgingly, as Ogden looked inquiringly toward her.
"Good morning," said Ogden.
She did not answer, ut with a frightened glance at her father turned her ack on the room and continued shifting the pots on the shelf ehind her.
"Well, Mr. Gaunt," said Ogden, "to get straight to the point, we have reason to elieve that your son, Morfin, performed magic in front of a Muggle late last night."
There was a deafening clang. Merope had dropped one of the pots.
"Pick it up!" Gaunt ellowed at her. "Thats it, gru on the floor like some filthy Muggle, whats your wand for, you useless sack of muck?"
"Mr. Gaunt, please!" said Ogden in a shocked voice, as Merope, who had already picked up the pot, flushed lotchily scarlet, lost her grip on the pot again, drew her wand shakily from her pocket, pointed it at the pot, and muttered a hasty, inaudile spell that caused the pot to shoot across the floor away from her, hit the opposite wall, and crack in two.
Morfin let out a mad cackle of laughter. Gaunt screamed, "Mend it, you pointless lump, mend it!"
Merope stumled across the room, ut efore she had time to raise her wand, Ogden had lifted his own and said firmly, "Reparo. " The pot mended itself instantly.
Gaunt looked for a moment as though he was going to shout at Ogden, ut seemed to think etter of it: Instead, he jeered at his daughter, "Lucky the nice man from the Ministrys here, isnt it? Perhaps hell take you off my hands, perhaps he doesnt mind dirty Squis. . . ."
Without looking at anyody or thanking Ogden, Merope picked up the pot and returned it, hands tremling, to its shelf. She then stood quite still, her ack against the wall etween the filthy window and the stove, as though she wished for nothing more than to sink into the stone and vanish.
"Mr. Gaunt," Ogden egan again, "as Ive said: the reason for my visit --"
"I heard you the first time!" snapped Gaunt. "And so what? Morfin gave a Muggle a it of what was coming to him -- what aout it, then?"
"Morfin has roken Wizarding law," said Ogden sternly.
"Morfin has roken Wizarding law." Gaunt imitated Ogden’s voice, making it pompous and singsong. Morfin cackled again. "He taught a filthy Muggle a lesson, thats illegal now, is it?"
"Yes," said Ogden. "Im afraid it is."
He pulled from an inside pocket a small scroll of parchment and unrolled it.
"Whats that, then, his sentence?" said Gaunt, his voice rising angrily.
"It is a summons to the Ministry for a hearing --"
"Summons! Summons? Who do you think you are, summoning my son anywhere?"
"Im Head of the Magical Law Enforcement Squad," said Ogden.
"And you think were scum, do you?" screamed Gaunt, advancing on Ogden now, with a dirty yellow-nailed finger pointing at his chest. "Scum wholl come running when the Ministry tells em to? Do you know who youre talking to, you filthy little Mudlood, do you?"
"I was under the impression that I was speaking to Mr. Gaunt," said Ogden, looking wary, ut standing his ground.
"Thats right!" roared Gaunt. For a moment, Harry thought Gaunt was making an oscene hand gesture, ut then realized that he was showing Ogden the ugly, lack-stoned ring he was wearing on his middle finger, waving it efore Ogdens eyes. "See this? See this? Know what it is? Know where it came from? Centuries its een in our family, thats how far ack we go, and pure-lood all the way! Know how much Ive een offered for this, with the Peverell coat of arms engraved on the stone?"
"Ive really no idea," said Ogden, linking as the ring sailed within an inch of his nose, "and its quite eside the point, Mr. Gaunt. Your son has committed --"
With a howl of rage, Gaunt ran toward his daughter. For a split second, Harry thought he was going to throttle her as his hand flew to her throat; next moment, he was dragging her toward Ogden y a gold chain around her neck.
"See this?" he ellowed at Ogden, shaking a heavy gold locket at him, while Merope spluttered and gasped for reath.
"I see it, I see it!" said Ogden hastily.
"Slytherins!" yelled Gaunt. "Salazar Slytherins! Were his last living descendants, what do you say to that, eh?"
"Mr. Gaunt, your daughter!" said Ogden in alarm, ut Gaunt had already released Merope; she staggered away from him, ack to her corner, massaging her neck and gulping for air.
"So!" said Gaunt triumphantly, as though he had just proved a complicated point eyond all possile dispute. "Dont you go talking to us as if were dirt on your shoes! Generations of pureloods, wizards all -- more than you can say, I dont dout!"
And he spat on the floor at Ogdens feet. Morfin cackled again. Merope, huddled eside the window, her head owed and her face hidden y her lank hair, said nothing.
"Mr. Gaunt," said Ogden doggedly, "I am afraid that neither your ancestors nor mine have anything to do with the matter in hand. I am here ecause of Morfin, Morfin and the Muggle he accosted late last night. Our information" -- he glanced down at his scroll of parchment -- "is that Morfin performed a jinx or hex on the said Muggle, causing him to erupt in highly painful hives."
Morfin giggled.
"Be quiet, oy," snarled Gaunt in Parseltongue, and Morfin fell silent again.
"And so what if he did, then?" Gaunt said defiantly to Ogden, "I expect youve wiped the Muggles filthy face clean for him, and his memory to oot--"
"Thats hardly the point, is it, Mr. Gaunt?" said Ogden. "This was an unprovoked attack on a defenseless --"
"Ar, I had you marked out as a Muggle-lover the moment I saw you," sneered Gaunt, and he spat on the floor again.
"This discussion is getting us nowhere," said Ogden firmly. "It is clear from your sons attitude that he feels no remorse for his actions." He glanced down at his scroll of parchment again. "Morfin will attend a hearing on the fourteenth of Septemer to answer the charges of using magic in front of a Muggle and causing harm and distress to that same Mugg --"
Ogden roke off. The jingling, clopping sounds of horses and loud, laughing voices were drifting in through the open window. Apparently the winding lane to the village passed very close to the copse where the house stood. Gaunt froze, listening, his eyes wide. Morfin hissed and turned his face toward the sounds, his expression hungry. Merope raised her head. Her face, Harry saw, was starkly white.
"My God, what an eyesore!" rang out a girls voice, as clearly audile through the open window as if she had stood in the room eside them. "Couldnt your father have that hovel cleared away, Tom?"
"Its not ours," said a young mans voice. "Everything on the other side of the valley elongs to us, ut that cottage elongs to an old tramp called Gaunt, and his children. The sons quite mad, you should hear some of the stories they tell in the village --"
The girl laughed. The jingling, clopping noises were growing louder and louder. Morfin made to get out of his armchair. "Keep your seat," said his father warningly, in Parseltongue.
"Tom," said the girls voice again, now so close they were clearly right eside the house, "I might e wrong -- ut has someody nailed a snake to that door?"
"Good lord, youre right!" said the mans voice. "Thatll e the son, I told you hes not right in the head. Dont look at it, Cecilia, darling."
The jingling and clopping sounds were now growing faint again.
"Darling," whispered Morfin in Parseltongue, looking at his sister. "Darling, he called her. So he wouldnt have you anyway."
Merope was so white Harry felt sure she was going to faint.
"Whats that?" said Gaunt sharply, also in Parseltongue, looking from his son to his daughter. "What did you say, Morfin?"
"She likes looking at that Muggle," said Morfin, a vicious expression on his face as he stared at his sister, who now looked terrified. "Always in the garden when he passes, peering through the hedge at him, isnt she? And last night -- "
Merope shook her head jerkily, imploringly, ut Morfin went on ruthlessly, "Hanging out of the window waiting for him to ride home, wasnt she?"
"Hanging out of the window to look at a Muggle?" said Gaunt quietly.
All three of the Gaunts seemed to have forgotten Ogden, who was looking oth ewildered and irritated at this renewed outreak of incomprehensile hissing and rasping.
"Is it true?" said Gaunt in a deadly voice, advancing a step or two toward the terrified girl. "My daughter--pure-looded descendant of Salazar Slytherin -- hankering after a filthy, dirt-veined Muggle?"
Merope shook her head frantically, pressing herself into the wall, apparently unale to speak.
"But I got him, Father!" cackled Morfin. "I got him as he went y and he didnt look so pretty with hives all over him, did he, Merope?"
"You disgusting little Squi, you filthy little lood traitor!" roared Gaunt, losing control, and his hands closed around his daughters throat.
Both Harry and Ogden yelled "No!" at the same time; Ogden raised his wand and cried, "Relaskio!"
Gaunt was thrown ackward, away from his daughter; he tripped over a chair and fell flat on his ack. With a roar of rage, Morfin leapt out of his chair and ran at Ogden, randishing his loody knife and firing hexes indiscriminately from his wand.
Ogden ran for his life. Dumledore indicated that they ought to follow and Harry oeyed, Meropes screams echoing in his ears.
Ogden hurtled up the path and erupted onto the main lane, his arms over his head, where he collided with the glossy chestnut horse ridden y a very handsome, dark-haired young man. Both he and the pretty girl riding eside him on a gray horse roared with laughter at the sight of Ogden, who ounced off the horses flank and set off again, his frock coat flying, covered from head to foot in dust, running pell-mell up the lane.
"I think that will do, Harry," said Dumledore. He took Harry y the elow and tugged. Next moment, they were oth soaring weightlessly through darkness, until they landed squarely on their feet, ack in Dumledores now twilit office.
"What happened to the girl in the cottage?" said Harry at once, as Dumledore lit extra lamps with a flick of his wand. "Merope, or whatever her name was?"
"Oh, she survived," said Dumledore, reseating himself ehind his desk and indicating that Harry should sit down too. "Ogden Apparated ack to the Ministry and returned with reinforcements within fifteen minutes. Morfin and his father attempted to fight, ut oth were overpowered, removed from the cottage, and susequently convicted y the Wizengamot. Morfin, who already had a record of Muggle attacks, was sentenced to three years in Azkaan. Marvolo, who had injured several Ministry employees in addition to Ogden, received six months."
"Marvolo?" Harry repeated wonderingly.
"Thats right," said Dumledore, smiling in approval. "I am glad to see youre keeping up."
"That old man was -- ?"
"Voldemorts grandfather, yes," said Dumledore. "Marvolo, his son, Morfin, and his daughter, Merope, were the last of the Gaunts, a very ancient Wizarding family noted for a vein of instaility and violence that flourished through the generations due to their hait of marrying their own cousins. Lack of sense coupled with a great liking for grandeur meant that the family gold was squandered several generations efore Marvolo was orn. He, as you saw, was left in squalor and poverty, with a very nasty temper, a fantastic amount of arrogance and pride, and a couple of family heirlooms that he treasured just as much as his son, and rather more than his daughter."
"So Merope," said Harry, leaning forward in his chair and star-ing at Dumledore, "so Merope was . . . Sir, does that mean she was . . . Voldemorts mother?"
"It does," said Dumledore. "And it so happens that we also had a glimpse of Voldemorts father. I wonder whether you noticed?"
"The Muggle Morfin attacked? The man on the horse?"
"Very good indeed," said Dumledore, eaming. "Yes, that was Tom Riddle senior, the handsome Muggle who used to go riding past the Gaunt cottage and for whom Merope Gaunt cherished a secret, urning passion."
"And they ended up married?" Harry said in diselief, unale to imagine two people less likely to fall in love.
"I think you are forgetting," said Dumledore, "that Merope was a witch. I do not elieve that her magical powers appeared to their est advantage when she was eing terrorized y her father. Once Marvolo and Morfin were safely in Azkaan, once she was alone and free for the first time in her life, then, I am sure, she was ale to give full rein to her ailities and to plot her escape from the desperate life she had led for eighteen years."
"Can you not think of any measure Merope could have taken to make Tom Riddle forget his Muggle companion, and fall in love with her instead?"
"The Imperius Curse?" Harry suggested. "Or a love potion?"
"Very good. Personally, I am inclined to think that she used a love potion. I am sure it would have seemed more romantic to her, and I do not think it would have een very difficult, some hot day, when Riddle was riding alone, to persuade him to take a drink of water. In any case, within a few months of the scene we have just witnessed, the village of Little Hangleton enjoyed a tremendous scandal. You can imagine the gossip it caused when the squires son ran off with the tramps daughter, Merope."
"But the villagers shock was nothing to Marvolos. He returned from Azkaan, expecting to find his daughter dutifully awaiting his return with a hot meal ready on his tale. Instead, he found a clear inch of dust and her note of farewell, explaining what she had done."
"From all that I have een ale to discover, he never mentioned her name or existence from that time forth. The shock of her desertion may have contriuted to his early death -- or perhaps he had simply never learned to feed himself. Azkaan had greatly weakened Marvolo, and he did not live to see Morfin return to the cottage."
"And Merope? She ... she died, didnt she? Wasnt Voldemort rought up in an orphanage?"
"Yes, indeed," said Dumledore. "We must do a certain amount of guessing here, although I do not think it is difficult to deduce what happened. You see, within a few months of their runaway marriage, Tom
Riddle reappeared at the manor house in Little Hangleton without his wife. The rumor flew around the neighorhood that he was talking of eing hoodwinked and taken in. What he meant, I am sure, is that he had een under an enchantment that had now lifted, though I daresay he did not dare use those precise words for fear of eing thought insane. When they heard what he was saying, however, the villagers guessed that Merope had lied to Tom Riddle, pretending that she was going to have his ay, and that he had married her for this reason."
"But she did have his ay."
"But not until a year after they were married. Tom Riddle left her while she was still pregnant."
"What went wrong?" asked Harry. "Why did the love potion stop working?"
"Again, this is guesswork," said Dumledore, "ut I elieve that Merope, who was deeply in love with her husand, could not ear to continue enslaving him y magical means. I elieve that she made the choice to stop giving him the potion. Perhaps, esotted as she was, she had convinced herself that he would y now have fallen in love with her in return. Perhaps she thought he would stay for the ays sake. If so, she was wrong on oth counts. He left her, never saw her again, and never trouled to discover what ecame of his son."
The sky outside was inky lack and the lamps in Dumledores office seemed to glow more rightly than efore.
"I think that will do for tonight, Harry," said Dumledore after a moment or two.
"Yes, sir," said Harry.
He got to his feet, ut did not leave.
"Sir ... is it important to know all this aout Voldemorts past?"
"Very important, I think," said Dumledore.
"And it... its got something to do with the prophecy?"
"It has everything to do with the prophecy."
"Right," said Harry, a little confused, ut reassured all the same.
He turned to go, then another question occurred to him, and he turned ack again. "Sir, am I allowed to tell Ron and Hermione everything youve told me?"
Dumledore considered him for a moment, then said, "Yes, I think Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger have proved themselves trust-worthy. But Harry, I am going to ask you to ask them not to repeat any of this to anyody else.
It would not e a good idea if word got around how much I know, or suspect, aout Lord Voldemorts secrets."
"No, sir, Ill make sure its just Ron and Hermione. Good night."
He turned away again, and was almost at the door when he saw it. Sitting on one of the little spindle-legged tales that supported so many frail-looking silver instruments, was an ugly gold ring set with a large, cracked, lack stone.
"Sir," said Harry, staring at it. "That ring--"
"Yes?" said Dumledore.
"You were wearing it when we visited Professor Slughorn that night."
"So I was," Dumledore agreed.
"But isnt it... sir, isnt it the same ring Marvolo Gaunt showed Ogden?"
Dumledore owed his head. "The very same."
"But how come -- ? Have you always had it?"
"No, I acquired it very recently," said Dumledore. "A few days efore I came to fetch you from your aunt and uncles, in fact."
"That would e around the time you injured your hand, then, sir?"
"Around that time, yes, Harry."
Harry hesitated. Dumledore was smiling.
"Sir, how exactly -- ?"
"Too late, Harry! You shall hear the story another time. Good night."
"Good night, sir."
Chapter 11: Hermiones helping hand
As Hermione had predicted, the sixth years free periods were not the hours of lissful relaxation Ron had anticipated, ut times in which to attempt to keep up with the vast amount of homework they were eing set. Not only were they studying as though they had exams every day, ut the lessons themselves had ecome more demanding than ever efore. Harry arely understood half of what Professor McGonagall said to them these days; even Hermione had had to ask her to repeat instructions once or twice. Incredily, and to Hermiones increasing resentment, Harrys est suject had suddenly ecome Potions, thanks to the Half-Blood Prince.
Nonveral spells were now expected, not only in Defense Against the Dark Arts, ut in Charms and Transfiguration too. Harry frequently looked over at his classmates in the common room or at mealtimes to see them purple in the face and straining as though they had overdosed on U-No-Poo; ut he knew that they were really struggling to make spells work without saying incantations aloud. It was a relief to get outside into the greenhouses; they were dealing with more dangerous plants than ever in Herology, ut at least they were still allowed to swear loudly if the Venomous Tentacula seized them unexpectedly from ehind.
One result of their enormous workload and the frantic hours of practicing nonveral spells was that Harry, Ron, and Hermione had so far een unale to find time to go and visit Hagrid. He had stopped coming to meals at the staff tale, an ominous sign, and on the few occasions when they had passed
him in the corridors or out in the grounds, he had mysteriously failed to notice them or hear their greetings.
"Weve got to go and explain," said Hermione, looking up at Hagrids huge empty chair at the staff tale the following Saturday at reakfast.
"Weve got Quidditch tryouts this morning!" said Ron. "And were supposed to e practicing that Aguamenti Charm from Flitwick! Anyway, explain what? How are we going to tell him we hated his stupid suject?"
"We didnt hate it!" said Hermione.
"Speak for yourself, I havent forgotten the skrewts," said Ron darkly. "And Im telling you now, weve had a narrow escape. You didnt hear him going on aout his gormless rother -- wed have een teaching Grawp how to tie his shoelaces if wed stayed."
"I hate not talking to Hagrid," said Hermione, looking upset.
"Well go down after Quidditch," Harry assured her. He too was missing Hagrid, although like Ron he thought that they were etter off without Grawp in their lives. "But trials might take all morning, the numer of people who have applied." He felt slightly nervous at confronting the first hurdle of his Captaincy. "I dunno why the teams this popular all of a sudden."
"Oh, come on, Harry," said Hermione, suddenly impatient. "Its not Quidditch thats popular, its you! Youve never een more interesting, and frankly, youve never een more fanciale."
Ron gagged on a large piece of kipper. Hermione spared him one look of disdain efore turning ack to Harry.
"Everyone knows youve een telling the truth now, dont they? The whole Wizarding world has had to admit that you were right aout Voldemort eing ack and that you really have fought him twice in the last two years and escaped oth times. And now theyre calling you the Chosen One -- well, come on, cant you see why people are fascinated y you?"
Harry was finding the Great Hall very hot all of a sudden, even though the ceiling still looked cold and rainy.
"And youve een through all that persecution from the Ministry when they were trying to make out you were unstale and a liar. You can still see the marks on the ack of your hand where that evil woman made you write with your own lood, ut you stuck to your story anyway. ..."
"You can still see where those rains got hold of me in the Ministry, look," said Ron, shaking ack his sleeves.
"And it doesnt hurt that youve grown aout a foot over the summer either," Hermione finished, ignoring Ron.
"Im tall," said Ron inconsequentially.
The post owls arrived, swooping down through rain-flecked windows, scattering everyone with droplets of water. Most people were receiving more post than usual; anxious parents were keen to hear from their children and to reassure them, in turn, that all was well at home. Harry had received no mail since the start of term; his only regular correspondent was now dead and although he had hoped that Lupin might write occasionally, he had so far een disappointed. He was very surprised, therefore, to see the snowy white Hedwig circling amongst all the rown and gray owls. She landed in front of him carrying a large, square package. A moment later, an identical package landed in front of Ron, crushing eneath it his minuscule and exhausted owl, Pigwidgeon.
"Ha!" said Harry, unwrapping the parcel to reveal a new copy of Advanced Potion-Making, fresh from Flourish and Blotts.
"Oh good," said Hermione, delighted. "Now you can give that graffitied copy ack."
"Are you mad?" said Harry. "Im keeping it! Look, Ive thought it out --"
He pulled the old copy of Advanced Potion-Making out of his ag and tapped the cover with his wand, muttering, "Dijjindo!" The cover fell off. He did the same thing with the rand-new ook (Hermione looked scandalized). He then swapped the covers, tapped each, and said, "Reparo!"
There sat the Princes copy, disguised as a new ook, and there sat the fresh copy from Flourish and Blotts, looking thoroughly secondhand.
"Ill give Slughorn ack the new one, he cant complain, it cost nine Galleons."
Hermione pressed her lips together, looking angry and disapproving, ut was distracted y a third owl landing in front of her carrying that days copy of the Daily Prophet. She unfolded it hastily and scanned the front page.
"Anyone we know dead?" asked Ron in a determinedly casual voice; he posed the same question every time Hermione opened her paper.
"No, ut there have een more dementor attacks," said Hermione. "And an arrest."
"Excellent, who?" said Harry, thinking of Bellatrix Lestrange. "Stan Shunpike," said Hermione.
"What?" said Harry, startled.
"Stanley Shunpike, conductor on the popular Wizarding conveyance the Knight Bus, has een arrested on suspicion of Death Eater activity. Mr. Shunpike, 21, was taken into custody late last night after a raid on his Clapham home. . ."
"Stan Shunpike, a Death Eater?" said Harry, rememering the spotty youth he had first met three years efore. "No way!"
"He might have een put under the Imperius Curse," said Ron reasonaly. "You never can tell."
"It doesnt look like it," said Hermione, who was still reading. "It says here he was arrested after he was overheard talking aout the Death Eaters secret plans in a pu." She looked up with a trouled expression on her face. "If he was under the Imperius Curse, hed hardly stand around gossiping aout their plans, would he?"
"It sounds like he was trying to make out he knew more than he did," said Ron. "Isnt he the one who claimed he was going to ecome Minister of Magic when he was trying to chat up those veela?"
"Yeah, thats him," said Harry. "I dunno what theyre playing at, taking Stan seriously."
"They proaly want to look as though theyre doing something," said Hermione, frowning. "People are terrified -- you know the Patil twins parents want them to go home? And Eloise Midgen has already een withdrawn. Her father picked her up last night."
"What!" said Ron, goggling at Hermione. "But Hogwarts is safer than their homes, ound to e! Weve got Aurors, and all those extra protective spells, and weve got Dumledore!"
"I dont think weve got him all the time," said Hermione very quietly, glancing toward the staff tale over the top of the Prophet. "Havent you noticed? His seats een empty as often as Hagrids this past week."
Harry and Ron looked up at the staff tale. The headmasters chair was indeed empty. Now Harry came to think of it, he had not seen Dumledore since their private lesson a week ago.
"I think hes left the school to do something with the Order," said Hermione in a low voice. "I mean . . . its all looking serious, isnt it?"
Harry and Ron did not answer, ut Harry knew that they were all thinking the same thing. There had een a horrile incident the day efore, when Hannah Aott had een taken out of Herology to e told her mother had een found dead. They had not seen Hannah since.
When they left the Gryffindor tale five minutes later to head down to the Quidditch pitch, they passed Lavender Brown and Parvati Patil. Rememering what Hermione had said aout the Patil twins parents wanting them to leave Hogwarts, Harry was unsurprised to see that the two est friends were whispering together, looking distressed. What did surprise him was that when Ron drew level with them, Parvati suddenly nudged Lavender, who looked around and gave Ron a wide smile. Ron linked at her, then returned the smile uncertainly. His walk instantly ecame something more like a strut. Harry resisted the temptation to laugh, rememering that Ron had refrained from doing so after Malfoy had roken
Harrys nose; Hermione, however, looked cold and distant all the way down to the stadium through the cool, misty drizzle, and departed to find a place in the stands without wishing Ron good luck.
As Harry had expected, the trials took most of the morning. Half of Gryffindor House seemed to have turned up, from first years who were nervously clutching a selection of the dreadful old school rooms, to seventh years who towered over the rest, looking coolly intimidating. The latter included a large, wiry-haired oy Harry recognized immediately from the Hogwarts Express.
"We met on the train, in old Sluggys compartment," he said confidently, stepping out of the crowd to shake Harrys hand. "Cormac McLaggen, Keeper."
"You didnt try out last year, did you?" asked Harry, taking note of the readth of McLaggen and thinking that he would proaly lock all three goal hoops without even moving.
"I was in the hospital wing when they held the trials," said McLaggen, with something of a swagger. "Ate a pound of doxy eggs for a et."
"Right," said Harry. "Well. . . if you wait over there ..." He pointed over to the edge of the pitch, close to where Hermione was sitting. He thought he saw a flicker of annoyance pass over McLaggens face and wondered whether McLaggen expected preferential treatment ecause they were oth "old Sluggys" favorites. Harry decided to start with a asic test, asking all
applicants for the team to divide into groups of ten and fly once around the pitch. This was a good decision: the first ten was made up of first years, and it could not have een plainer that they had hardly ever flown efore. Only one oy managed to remain airorne for more than a few seconds, and he was so surprised he promptly crashed into one of the goal posts.
The second group was comprised of ten of the silliest girls Harry had ever encountered, who, when he lew his whistle, merely fell aout giggling and clutching one another. Romilda Vane was amongst them. When he told them to leave the pitch, they did so quite cheerfully and went to sit in the stands to heckle everyone else.
The third group had a pileup halfway around the pitch. Most of the fourth group had come without roomsticks. The fifth group were Hufflepuffs.
"If theres anyone else here whos not from Gryffindor," roared Harry, who was starting to get seriously annoyed, "leave now, please!
There was a pause, then a couple of little Ravenclaws went sprinting off the pitch, snorting with laughter.
After two hours, many complaints, and several tantrums, one involving a crashed Comet Two Sixty and several roken teeth, Harry had found himself three Chasers: Katie Bell, returned to the team after an excellent trial; a new find called Demelza Roins, who was particularly good at dodging Bludgers; and Ginny Weasley, who had outflown all the competition and scored seventeen goals to oot. Pleased though he was with his choices,
Harry had also shouted himself hoarse at the many complainers and was now enduring a similar attle with the rejected Beaters.
"Thats my final decision and if you dont get out of the way of the Keepers Ill hex you," he ellowed.
Neither of his chosen Beaters had the old rilliance of Fred and George, ut he was still reasonaly pleased with them: Jimmy Peakes, a short ut road-chested third-year oy who had managed to raise a lump the size of an egg on the ack of Harrys head with a ferociously hit Bludger, and Ritchie Coote, who looked weedy ut aimed well. They now joined Katie, Demelza, and Ginny in the stands to watch the selection of their last team memer.
Harry had delierately left the trial of the Keepers until last, hoping for an emptier stadium and less pressure on all concerned. Unfortunately, however, all the rejected players and a numer of people who had come down to watch after a lengthy reakfast had joined the crowd y now, so that it was larger than ever. As each Keeper flew up to the goal hoops, the crowd roared and jeered in equal measure. Harry glanced over at Ron, who had always had a prolem with nerves; Harry had hoped that winning their final match last term might have cured it, ut apparently not: Ron was a delicate shade of green.
None of the first five applicants saved more than two goals apiece. To Harrys great disappointment, Cormac McLaggen saved four penalties out of five. On the last one, however, he shot off in completely the wrong
direction; the crowd laughed and ooed and McLaggen returned to the ground grinding his teeth.
Ron looked ready to pass out as he mounted his Cleansweep Eleven. "Good luck!" cried a voice from the stands. Harry looked around, expecting to see Hermione, ut it was Lavender Brown. He would have quite liked to have hidden his face in his hands, as she did a moment later, ut thought that as the Captain he ought to show slightly more grit, and so turned to watch Ron do his trial.
Yet he need not have worried: Ron saved one, two, three, four, five penalties in a row. Delighted, and resisting joining in the cheers of the crowd with difficulty, Harry turned to McLaggen to tell him that, most unfortunately, Ron had eaten him, only to find McLaggens red face inches from his own. He stepped ack hastily.
"His sister didnt really try," said McLaggen menacingly. There was a vein pulsing in his temple like the one Harry had often ad-mired in Uncle Vernons. "She gave him an easy save."
"Ruish," said Harry coldly. "That was the one he nearly missed."
McLaggen took a step nearer Harry, who stood his ground this time.
"Give me another go."
"No," said Harry. "Youve had your go. You saved four. Ron saved five. Rons Keeper, he won it fair and square. Get out of my way."
He thought for a moment that McLaggen might punch him, ut he contented himself with an ugly grimace and stormed away, growling what sounded like threats to thin air.
Harry turned around to find his new team eaming at him.
"Well done," he croaked. "You flew really well --"
"You did rilliantly, Ron!"
This time it really was Hermione running toward them from the stands; Harry saw Lavender walking off the pitch, arm in arm with Parvati, a rather grumpy expression on her face. Ron looked extremely pleased with himself and even taller than usual as he grinned at the team and at Hermione.
After fixing the time of their first full practice for the following Thursday, Harry, Ron, and Hermione ade good-ye to the rest of the team and headed off toward Hagrids. A watery sun was trying to reak through the clouds now and it had stopped drizzling at last. Harry felt extremely hungry; he hoped there would e some-thing to eat at Hagrids.
"I thought I was going to miss that fourth penalty," Ron was saying happily. "Tricky shot from Demelza, did you see, had a it of spin on it --"
"Yes, yes, you were magnificent," said Hermione, looking amused.
"I was etter than that McLaggen anyway," said Ron in a highly satisfied voice. "Did you see him lumering off in the wrong direction on his fifth? Looked like hed een Confunded. ..."
To Harrys surprise, Hermione turned a very deep shade of pink at these words. Ron noticed nothing; he was too usy descriing each of his other penalties in loving detail.
The great gray hippogriff, Buckeak, was tethered in front of Hagrids cain. He clicked his razor-sharp eak at their approach and turned his huge head toward them.
"Oh dear," said Hermione nervously. "Hes still a it scary, isnt he?"
"Come off it, youve ridden him, havent you?" said Ron. Harry stepped forward and owed low to the hippogriff without reaking eye contact or linking. After a few seconds, Buckeak sank into a ow too.
"How are you?" Harry asked him in a low voice, moving forward to stroke the feathery head. "Missing him? But youre okay here with Hagrid, arent you?"
"Oi!" said a loud voice.
Hagrid had come striding around the corner of his cain wearing a large flowery apron and carrying a sack of potatoes. His enormous oarhound, Fang, was at his heels; Fang gave a ooming ark and ounded forward.
"Git away from him! Hell have yer fingers -- oh. Its yeh lot."
Fang was jumping up at Hermione and Ron, attempting to lick their ears. Hagrid stood and looked at them all for a split second, then turned and strode into his cain, slamming the door ehind him.
"Oh dear!" said Hermione, looking stricken.
"Dont worry aout it," said Harry grimly. He walked over to the door and knocked loudly. "Hagrid! Open up, we want to talk to you!"
There was no sound from within.
"If you dont open the door, well last it open!" Harry said, pulling out his wand.
"Harry!" said Hermione, sounding shocked. "You cant possily --"
"Yeah, I can!" said Harry. "Stand ack --"
But efore he could say anything else, the door flew open again as Harry had known it would, and there stood Hagrid, glowering down at him and looking, despite the flowery apron, positively alarming.
"Im a teacher!" he roared at Harry. "A teacher, Potter! How dare yeh threaten ter reak down my door!"
"Im sorry, sir" said Harry, emphasizing the last word as he stowed his wand inside his roes.
Hagrid looked stunned. "Since when have yeh called me sir?"
"Since when have you called me Potter?"
"Oh, very clever," growled Hagrid. "Very amusin. Thats me outsmarted, innit? All righ, come in then, yeh ungrateful little . . ."
Mumling darkly, he stood ack to let them pass. Hermione scurried in after Harry, looking rather frightened.
"Well?" said Hagrid grumpily, as Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down around his enormous wooden tale, Fang laying his head immediately upon Harrys knee and drooling all over his roes. "Whats this? Feelin sorry for me? Reckon Im lonely or summat?"
"No," said Harry at once. "We wanted to see you."
"Weve missed you!" said Hermione tremulously.
"Missed me, have yeh?" snorted Hagrid. "Yeah. Righ."
He stomped around, rewing up tea in his enormous copper kettle, muttering all the while. Finally he slammed down three ucket-sized mugs of mahogany-rown tea in front of them and a plate of his rock cakes. Harry was hungry enough even for Hagrids cooking, and took one at once.
"Hagrid," said Hermione timidly, when he joined them at the tale and started peeling his potatoes with a rutality that suggested that each tuer had done him a great personal wrong, "we really wanted to carry on with Care of Magical Creatures, you know." Hagrid gave another great snort. Harry rather thought some o-geys landed on the potatoes, and was inwardly thankful that they were not staying for dinner.
"We did!" said Hermione. "But none of us could fit it into our schedules!"
"Yeah. Righ," said Hagrid again.
There was a funny squelching sound and they all looked around: Hermione let out a tiny shriek, and Ron leapt out of his seat and hurried around the tale away from the large arrel standing in the corner that they had only just noticed. It was full of what looked like foot-long maggots, slimy, white, and writhing.
"What are they, Hagrid?" asked Harry, trying to sound interested rather than revolted, ut putting down his rock cake all the same.
"Jus giant grus," said Hagrid.
"And they grow into ... ?" said Ron, looking apprehensive.
"They won grow inter nuthin," said Hagrid. "I got em ter feed ter Aragog."
And without warning, he urst into tears.
"Hagrid!" cried Hermione, leaping up, hurrying around the tale the long way to avoid the arrel of maggots, and putting an arm around his shaking shoulders. "What is it?"
"Its. . . him . .." gulped Hagrid, his eetle-lack eyes stream-ing as he mopped his face with his apron. "Its . . . Aragog. ... I think hes dyin. . , . He got ill over the summer an hes not gettin etter.... I don know what Ill do if he ... if he ... Weve in tergether so long. ..."
Hermione patted Hagrids shoulder, looking at a complete loss for anything to say. Harry knew how she felt. He had known Hagrid to present a vicious ay dragon with a teddy ear, seen him croon over giant scorpions with suckers and stingers, attempt to reason with his rutal giant of a half-rother, ut this was perhaps the most incomprehensile of all his monster fancies: the gigantic talking spider, Aragog, who dwelled deep in the Foridden Forest and which he and Ron had only narrowly escaped four years previously.
"Is there -- is there anything we can do?" Hermione asked, ignoring Rons frantic grimaces and head-shakings.
"I don think there is, Hermione," choked Hagrid, attempting to stem the flood of his tears. "See, the rest o the trie ... Aragogs family . . . theyre gettin a it funny now hes ill... it restive ..."
"Yeah, I think we saw a it of that side of them," said Ron in an undertone.
"... I don reckon itd e safe fer anyone ut me ter go near the colony at the mo," Hagrid finished, lowing his nose hard on his apron and looking up. "But thanks fer offerin, Hermione. ... It means a lot."
After that, the atmosphere lightened consideraly, for although neither Harry nor Ron had shown any inclination to go and feed giant grus to a murderous, gargantuan spider, Hagrid seemed to take it for granted that they would have liked to have done and ecame his usual self once more.
"Ar, I always knew yehd find it hard ter squeeze me inter yer timetales," he said gruffly, pouring them more tea. "Even if yeh applied fer Time-Turners --"
"We couldnt have done," said Hermione. "We smashed the entire stock of Ministry Time-Turners when we were there last summer. It was in the Daily Prophet."
"Ar, well then," said Hagrid. "Theres no way yeh couldve done it. ... Im sorry Ive in -- yeh know -- Ive jus in worried aout Aragog ... an I did wonder whether, if Professor Gruly-Plank had in teachin yeh --"
At which all three of them stated categorically and untruthfully that Professor Gruly-Plank, who had sustituted for Hagrid a few times, was a dreadful teacher, with the result that y the time Hagrid waved them off the premises at dusk, he looked quite cheerful.
"Im starving," said Harry, once the door had closed ehind them and they were hurrying through the dark and deserted grounds; he had aandoned the rock cake after an ominous cracking noise from one of his ack teeth. "And Ive got that detention with Snape tonight, I havent got much time for dinner."
As they came into the castle they spotted Cormac McLaggen entering the Great Hall. It took him two attempts to get through the doors; he ricocheted off the frame on the first attempt. Ron merely guffawed gloatingly and strode off into the Hall after him, ut Harry caught Hermiones arm and held her ack.
"What?" said Hermione defensively.
"If you ask me," said Harry quietly, "McLaggen looks like he was Confunded this morning. And he was standing right in front of where you were sitting."
Hermione lushed.
"Oh, all right then, I did it," she whispered. "But you should have heard the way he was talking aout Ron and Ginny! Anyway, hes got a nasty temper, you saw how he reacted when he didnt get in -- you wouldnt have wanted someone like that on the team."
"No," said Harry. "No, I suppose thats true. But wasnt that dishonest, Hermione? I mean, youre a prefect, arent you?"
"Oh, e quiet," she snapped, as he smirked.
"What are you two doing?" demanded Ron, reappearing in the doorway to the Great Hall and looking suspicious.
"Nothing," said Harry and Hermione together, and they hurried after Ron. The smell of roast eef made Harrys stomach ache with hunger, ut they had arely taken three steps toward the Gryffindor tale when Professor Slughorn appeared in front of them, locking their path.
"Harry, Harry, just the man I was hoping to see!" he oomed genially, twiddling the ends of his walrus mustache and puffing out his enormous elly, "I was hoping to catch you efore dinner! What do you say to a spot of supper tonight in my rooms instead? Were having a little party, just a few rising stars, Ive got McLaggen coming and Zaini, the charming Melinda Boin -- I dont know whether you know her? Her family owns a large
chain of apothecaries -- and, of course, I hope very much that Miss Granger will favor me y coming too."
Slughorn made Hermione a little ow as he finished speaking. It was as though Ron was not present; Slughorn did not so much as look at him.
"I cant come, Professor," said Harry at once. "Ive got a detention with Professor Snape."
"Oh dear!" said Slughorn, his face falling comically. "Dear, dear, I was counting on you, Harry! Well, now, Ill just have to have a word with Severus and explain the situation. Im sure Ill e ale to persuade him to postpone your detention. Yes, Ill see you oth later!" He ustled away out of the Hall.
"Hes got no chance of persuading Snape," said Harry, the moment Slughorn was out of earshot. "This detention’s already een postponed once; Snape did it for Dumledore, ut he wont do it for anyone else."
"Oh, I wish you could come, I dont want to go on my own!" said Hermione anxiously; Harry knew that she was thinking aout McLaggen.
"I dout youll e alone, Ginnyll proaly e invited," snapped Ron, who did not seem to have taken kindly to eing ignored y Slughorn.
After dinner they made their way ack to Gryffindor Tower. The common room was very crowded, as most people had finished dinner y now, ut
they managed to find a free tale and sat down; Ron, who had een in a ad mood ever since the encounter with Slughorn, folded his arms and frowned at the ceiling. Hermione reached out for a copy of the Evening Prophet, which someody had left aandoned on a chair.
"Anything new?" said Harry.
"Not really. . ." Hermione had opened the newspaper and was scanning the inside pages. "Oh, look, your dads in here, Ron -- hes all right!" she added quickly, for Ron had looked around in alarm. "It just says hes een to visit the Malfoys house. This second search of the Death Eaters residence does not seem to have yielded any results. Arthur Weasley of the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Ojects said that his team had een acting upon a confidential tip-off."
"Yeah, mine!" said Harry. "I told him at Kings Cross aout Malfoy and that thing he was trying to get Borgin to fix! Well, if its not at their house, he must have rought whatever it is to Hogwarts with him --"
"But how can he have done, Harry?" said Hermione, putting down the newspaper with a surprised look. "We were all searched when we arrived, werent we?"
"Were you?" said Harry, taken aack. "I wasnt!"
"Oh no, of course you werent, I forgot you were late. Well, Filch ran over all of us with Secrecy Sensors when we got into the entrance hall. Any Dark oject would have een found, I know for a fact Crae had a shrunken head confiscated. So you see, Malfoy cant have rought in anything dangerous!"
Momentarily stymied, Harry watched Ginny Weasley playing with Arnold the Pygmy Puff for a while efore seeing a way around this ojection.
"Someones sent it to him y owl, then," he said. "His mother or someone."
"All the owls are eing checked too," said Hermione. "Filch told us so when he was jaing those Secrecy Sensors everywhere he could reach."
Really stumped this time, Harry found nothing else to say. There did not seem to e any way Malfoy could have rought a dangerous or Dark oject into the school. He looked hopefully at Ron, who was sitting with his arms folded, staring over at Lavender Brown.
"Can you think of any way Malfoy -- ?"
"Oh, drop it, Harry," said Ron.
"Listen, its not my fault Slughorn invited Hermione and me to his stupid party, neither of us wanted to go, you know!" said Harry, firing up.
"Well, as Im not invited to any parties," said Ron, getting to his feet again, "I think Ill go to ed."
He stomped off toward the door to the oys dormitories, leaving Harry and Hermione staring after him.
"Harry?" said the new Chaser, Demelza Roins, appearing suddenly at his shoulder. "Ive got a message for you."
"From Professor Slughorn?" asked Harry, sitting up hopefully.
"No ... from Professor Snape," said Demelza. Harrys heart sank. "He says youre to come to his office at half past eight tonight to do your detention -- er -- no matter how many party invitations youve received. And he wanted you to know youll e sorting out rotten floerworms from good ones, to use in Potions and -- and he says theres no need to ring protective gloves."
"Right," said Harry grimly. "Thanks a lot, Demelza."
Chapter 12: Silver and opals
Where was Dumledore, and what was he doing?
Harry caught sight of the headmaster only twice over the next few weeks. He rarely appeared at meals anymore, and Harry was sure Hermione was right in thinking that he was leaving the school for days at a time. Had Dumledore forgotten the lessons he was supposed to e giving Harry? Dumledore had said that the lessons were leading to something to do with the prophecy; Harry had felt olstered, comforted, and now he felt slightly aandoned.
Halfway through Octoer came their first trip of the term to Hogsmeade. Harry had wondered whether these trips would still e allowed, given the increasingly tight security measures around the school, ut was pleased to know that they were going ahead; it was always good to get out of the castle grounds for a few hours.
Harry woke early on the morning of the trip, which was proving stormy, and whiled away the time until reakfast y reading his copy of Advanced Potion-Making. He did not usually lie in ed reading his textooks; that sort of ehavior, as Ron rightly said, was indecent in anyody except Hermione, who was simply weird that way. Harry felt, however, that the Half-Blood Princes copy of Advanced Potion-Making hardly qualified as a textook. The more Harry pored over the ook, the more he realized how much was in there, not only the handy hints and shortcuts on potions that was earning him such a glowing reputation with Slughorn, ut also the imaginative little
jinxes and hexes scriled in the margins, which Harry was sure, judging y the crossings-out and revisions, that the Prince had invented himself.
Harry had already attempted a few of the Princes self-invented spells. There had een a hex that caused toenails to grow alarmingly fast (he had tried this on Crae in the corridor, with very entertaining results); a jinx that glued the tongue to the roof of the mouth (which he had twice used, to general applause, on an unsuspecting Argus Filch); and, perhaps most useful of all, Muffliato, a spell that filled the ears of anyone neary with an unidentifiale uzzing, so that lengthy conversations could e held in class with out eing overheard. The only person who did not find these charms amusing was Hermione, who maintained a rigidly disapproving expression throughout and refused to talk at all if Harry had used the Muffliato spell on anyone in the vicinity.
Sitting up in ed, Harry turned the ook sideways so as to examine more closely the scriled instructions for a spell that seemed to have caused the Prince some troule. There were many crossings-out and alterations, ut finally, crammed into a corner of the page, the scrile:
Levicorpus (nvl)
While the wind and sleet pounded relentlessly on the windows, and Neville snored loudly, Harry stared at the letters in rackets. Nvl . . that had to mean "nonveral." Harry rather douted he would e ale to ring off this particular spell; he was still having difficulty with nonveral spells, something Snape had een quick to comment on in every D.A.D.A. class.
On the other hand, the Prince had proved a much more effective teacher than Snape so far.
Pointing his wand at nothing in particular, he gave it an upward flick and said Levicorpus! inside his head. "Aaaaaaaargh!"
There was a flash of light and the room was full of voices: Everyone had woken up as Ron had let out a yell. Harry sent Advanced Potion-Making flying in panic; Ron was dangling upside down in midair as though an invisile hook had hoisted him up y the ankle.
"Sorry!" yelled Harry, as Dean and Seamus roared with laughter, and Neville picked himself up from the floor, having fallen out of Bed. "Hang on -- Ill let you down --"
He groped for the potion ook and riffled through it in a panic, trying to find the right page; at last he located it and deciphered the cramped word underneath the spell: Praying that this was the counter-jinx, Harry thought Lieracorpus! with all his might. There was another flash of light, and Ron fell in a heap onto his mattress.
"Sorry," repeated Harry weakly, while Dean and Seamus continued to roar with laughter.
"Tomorrow," said Ron in a muffled voice, "Id rather you set the alarm clock."
By the time they had got dressed, padding themselves out with several of Mrs. Weasleys hand-knitted sweaters and carrying cloaks, scarves, and gloves, Rons shock had susided and he had decided that Harrys new spell was highly amusing; so amusing, in fact, that he lost no time in regaling Hermione with the story as they sat down for reakfast.
"... and then there was another flash, of light and I landed on the ed again!" Ron grinned, helping himself to sausages.
Hermione had not cracked a smile during this anecdote, and now turned an expression of wintry disapproval upon Harry.
"Was this spell, y any chance, another one from that potion ook of yours?" she asked.
Harry frowned at her.
"Always jump to the worst conclusion, dont you?"
"Was it?"
"Well. . . yeah, it was, ut so what?"
"So you just decided to try out an unknown, handwritten incantation and see what would happen?"
"Why does it matter if its handwritten?" said Harry, preferring not to answer the rest of the question.
"Because it’s proaly not Ministry of Magic approved," said Hermione. "And also," she added, as Harry and Ron rolled their eyes, "ecause Im starting to think this Prince character was a it dodgy."
Both Harry and Ron shouted her down at once.
"It was a laugh!" said Ron, upending a ketchup ottle over his sausages. "Just a laugh, Hermione, thats all!"
"Dangling people upside down y the ankle?" said Hermi-one. "Who puts their time and energy into making up spells like that?"
"Fred and George," said Ron, shrugging, "its their kind of thing. And, er--"
"My dad," said Harry. He had only just rememered.
"What?" said Ron and Hermione together.
"My dad used this spell," said Harry. "I -- Lupin told me."
This last part was not true; in fact, Harry had seen his father use the spell on Snape, ut he had never told Ron and Hermione aout that particular
excursion into the Pensieve. Now, however, a wonderful possiility occurred to him. Could the Half-Blood Prince possily e -- ?
"Maye your dad did use it, Harry," said Hermione, "ut hes not the only one. Weve seen a whole unch of people use it, in case youve forgotten. Dangling people in the air. Making them float along, asleep, helpless."
Harry stared at her. With a sinking feeling, he too rememered the ehavior of the Death Eaters at the Quidditch World Cup. Ron came to his aid.
"That was different," he said roustly. "They were ausing it. Harry and his dad were just having a laugh. You dont like the Prince, Hermione," he added, pointing a sausage at her sternly, "ecause hes etter than you at Potions --"
"Its got nothing to do with that!" said Hermione, her cheeks reddening. "I just think its very irresponsile to start performing spells when you dont even know what theyre for, and stop talking aout the Prince as if its his title, I et its just a stupid nickname, and it doesnt seem as though he was a very nice person to me!"
"I dont see where you get that from," said Harry heatedly. "If hed een a udding Death Eater he wouldnt have een oasting aout eing half-lood, would he?"
Even as he said it, Harry rememered that his father had een pure-lood, ut he pushed the thought out of his mind; he would worry aout that later.
"The Death Eaters cant all e pure-lood, there arent enough pure-lood wizards left," said Hermione stuornly. "I expect most of them are half-loods pretending to e pure. Its only Muggle-orns they hate, theyd e quite happy to let you and Ron join up."
"There is no way theyd let me e a Death Eater!" said Ron indignantly, a it of sausage flying off the fork he was now randishing at Hermione and hitting Ernie Macmillan on the head. "My whole family are lood traitors! Thats as ad as Muggle-orns to Death Eaters!"
"And theyd love to have me," said Harry sarcastically. "Wed e est pals if they didnt keep trying to do me in."
This made Ron laugh; even Hermione gave a grudging smile, and a distraction arrived in the shape of Ginny.
"Hey, Harry, Im supposed to give you this."
It was a scroll of parchment with Harrys name written upon it in familiar thin, slanting writing.
"Thanks, Ginny. . . Its Dumledores next lesson!" Harry told Ron and Hermione, pulling open the parchment and quickly read-ing its contents.
"Monday evening!" He felt suddenly light and happy. "Want to join us in Hogsmeade, Ginny?" he asked.
"Im going with Dean -- might see you there," she replied, waving at them as she left.
Filch was standing at the oak front doors as usual, checking off the names of people who had permission to go into Hogsmeade. The process took even longer than normal as Filch was triple-checking everyody with his Secrecy Sensor.
"What does it matter if were smuggling Dark stuff OUT?" demanded Ron, eyeing the long thin Secrecy Sensor with apprehension. "Surely you ought to e checking what we ring ack IN?"
His cheek earned him a few extra jas with the Sensor, and he was still wincing as they stepped out into the wind and sleet.
The walk into Hogsmeade was not enjoyale. Harry wrapped his scarf over his lower face; the exposed part soon felt oth raw and num. The road to the village was full of students ent doule against the itter wind. More than once Harry wondered whether they might not have had a etter time in the warm common room, and when they finally reached Hogsmeade and saw that Zonkos Joke Shop had een oarded up, Harry took it as confirmation that this trip was not destined to e fun. Ron pointed, with a
thickly gloved hand, toward Honeydukes, which was mercifully open, and Harry and Hermione staggered in his wake into the crowded shop.
"Thank God," shivered Ron as they were enveloped y warm, toffee-scented air. "Lets stay here all afternoon."
"Harry, moy!" said a ooming voice from ehind them.
"Oh no," muttered Harry. The three of them turned to see Professor Slughorn, who was wearing an enormous furry hat and an overcoat with matching fur collar, clutching a large ag of crystalized pineapple, and occupying at least a quarter of the shop.
"Harry, thats three of my little suppers youve missed now!" said Slughorn, poking him genially in the chest. "It wont do, moy, Im determined to have you! Miss Granger loves them, dont you?"
"Yes," said Hermione helplessly, "theyre really --"
"So why dont you come along, Harry?" demanded Slughorn.
"Well, Ive had Quidditch practice, Professor," said Harry, who had indeed een scheduling practices every time Slughorn had sent him a little, violet rion-adorned invitation. This strategy meant that Ron was not left out, and they usually had a laugh with Ginny, imagining Hermione shut up with McLaggen and Zaini.
"Well, I certainly expect you to win your first match after all the hard work!" said Slughorn. "But a little recreation never hurt any ody. Now, how aout Monday night, you cant possily want to practice in this weather...."
"I cant, Professor, Ive got -- er -- an appointment with Professor Dumledore that evening."
"Unlucky again!" cried Slughorn dramatically. "Ah, well . . . you cant evade me forever, Harry!"
And with a regal wave, he waddled out of the shop, taking as little notice of Ron as though he had een a display of Cockroach Clusters.
"I cant elieve youve wriggled out of another one," said Hermione, shaking her head. "Theyre not that ad, you know. . . Theyre even quite fun sometimes. . . ." But then she caught sight of Rons expression. "Oh, look -- theyve got deluxe sugar quills -- those would last hours!"
Glad that Hermione had changed the suject, Harry showed much more interest in the new extra-large sugar quills than he would normally have done, ut Ron continued to look moody and merely shrugged when Hermione asked him where he wanted to go next.
"Lets go to the Three Broomsticks," said Harry. "Itll e warm."
They undled their scarves ack over their faces and left the sweetshop. The itter wind was like knives on their faces after the sugary warmth of Honeydukes. The street was not very usy; noody was lingering to chat, just hurrying toward their destinations. The exceptions were two men a little ahead of them, standing just outside the Three Broomsticks. One was very tall and thin; squinting through his rain-washed glasses Harry recognized the arman who worked in the other Hogsmeade pu, the Hogs Head. As Harry, Ron, and Hermione drew closer, the arman drew his cloak more tightly around his neck and walked away, leaving the shorter man to fumle with something in his arms. They were arely feet from him when Harry realized who the man was.
"Mundungus!"
The squat, andy-legged man with long, straggly, ginger hair jumped and dropped an ancient suitcase, which urst open, releasing what looked like the entire contents of a junk shop window.
"Oh, ello, Arry," said Mundungus Fletcher, with a most unconvincing sta at airiness. "Well, dont let me keep ya."
And he egan scraling on the ground to retrieve the contents of his suitcase with every appearance of a man eager to e gone.
"Are you selling this stuff?" asked Harry, watching Mundungus gra an assortment of gruy-looking ojects from the ground.
"Oh, well, gotta scrape a living," said Mundungus. "Gimme that!"
Ron had stooped down and picked up something silver.
"Hang on," Ron said slowly. "This looks familiar --"
"Thank you!" said Mundungus, snatching the golet out of Rons hand and stuffing it ack into the case. "Well, Ill see you all _ OUCH!"
Harry had pinned Mundungus against the wall of the pu y the throat. Holding him fast with one hand, he pulled out his wand.
"Harry!" squealed Hermione.
"You took that from Sinuss house," said Harry, who was almost nose to nose with Mundungus and was reathing in an unpleasant smell of old toacco and spirits. "That had the Black family crest on it."
"I -- no -- what -- ?" spluttered Mundungus, who was slowly turning purple.
"What did you do, go ack the night he died and strip the place?" snarled Harry.
"I -- no -- "
"Give it to me!"
"Harry, you mustnt!" shrieked Hermione, as Mundungus started to turn lue.
There was a ang, and Harry felt his hands fly off Mundunguss throat. Gasping and spluttering, Mundungus seized his fallen case, then -- CRACK-- he Disapparated.
Harry swore at the top of his voice, spinning on the spot to see where Mundungus had gone.
"COME BACK, YOU THIEVING -- !"
"Theres no point, Harry." Tonks had appeared out of nowhere, her mousy hair wet with sleet.
"Mundungus will proaly e in London y now. Theres no point yelling."
"Hes nicked Siriuss stuff! Nicked it!"
"Yes, ut still," said Tonks, who seemed perfectly untrouled y this piece of information. "You should get out of the cold."
She watched them go through the door of the Three Broom-sticks. The moment he was inside, Harry urst out, "He was nicking Siriuss stuff!"
"I know, Harry, ut please dont shout, people are staring," whispered Hermione. "Go and sit down, Ill get you a drink."
Harry was still fuming when Hermione returned to their tale a few minutes later holding three ottles of uttereer.
"Cant the Order control Mundungus?" Harry demanded of the other two in a furious whisper. "Cant they at least stop him stealing everything thats not fixed down when hes at headquarters?"
"Shh!" said Hermione desperately, looking around to make sure noody was listening; there were a couple of warlocks sitting close y who were staring at Harry with great interest, and Zaini was lolling against a pillar not far away. "Harry, Id e annoyed too, I know its your things hes stealing--"
Harry gagged on his uttereer; he had momentarily forgotten that he owned numer twelve, Grimmauld Place.
"Yeah, its my stuff!" he said. "No wonder he wasnt pleased to see me! Well, Im going to tell Dumledore whats going on, hes the only one who scares Mundungus."
"Good idea," whispered Hermione, clearly pleased that Harry was calming down. "Ron, what are you staring at?"
"Nothing," said Ron, hastily looking away from the ar, ut Harry knew he was trying to catch the eye of the curvy and attractive ar-maid, Madam Rosmerta, for whom he had long nursed a soft spot.
"I expect nothings in the ack getting more firewhisky," said Hermione waspishly.
Ron ignored this jie, sipping his drink in what he evidently considered to e a dignified silence. Harry was thinking aout Sirius, and how he had hated those silver golets anyway. Hermione drummed her fingers on the tale, her eyes flickering etween Ron and the ar. The moment Harry drained the last drops in his ottle she said, "Shall we call it a day and go ack to school, then?"
The other two nodded; it had not een a fun trip and the weather was getting worse the longer they stayed. Once again they drew their cloaks tightly around them, rearranged their scarves, pulled on their gloves, then followed Katie Bell and a friend out of the pu and ack up the High Street. Harrys thoughts strayed to Ginny as they trudged up the road to Hogwarts through the frozen slush. They had not met up with her, undoutedly, thought Harry, ecause she and Dean were cozily closeted in Madam Puddifoots Tea Shop, that haunt of happy couples. Scowling, he owed his head against the swirling sleet and trudged on.
It was a little while efore Harry ecame aware that the voices of Katie Bell and her friend, which were eing carried ack to him on the wind, had ecome shriller and louder. Harry squinted at their indistinct figures. The
two girls were having an argument aout something Katie was holding in her hand. "Its nothing to do with you, Leanne!" Harry heard Katie say.
They rounded a corner in the lane, sleet coming thick and fast, lurring Harrys glasses. Just as he raised a gloved hand to wipe them, Leanne made to gra hold of the package Katie was holding; Katie tugged it ack and the package fell to the ground.
At once, Katie rose into the air, not as Ron had done, suspended comically y the ankle, ut gracefully, her arms outstretched, as though she was aout to fly. Yet there was something wrong, something eerie. . . . Her hair was whipped around her y the fierce wind, ut her eyes were closed and her face was quite empty of expression. Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Leanne had all halted in their tracks, watching.
Then, six feet aove the ground, Katie let out a terrile scream. Her eyes flew open ut whatever she could see, or whatever she was feeling, was clearly causing her terrile anguish. She screamed and screamed; Leanne started to scream too and seized Katies ankles, trying to tug her ack to the ground. Harry, Ron, and Hermione rushed forward to help, ut even as they graed Katies legs, she fell on top of them; Harry and Ron managed to catch her ut she was writhing so much they could hardly hold her. Instead they lowered her to the ground where she thrashed and screamed, apparently unale to recognize any of them.
Harry looked around; the landscape seemed deserted.
"Stay there!" he shouted at the others over the howling wind. "Im going for help!"
He egan to sprint toward the school; he had never seen anyone ehave as Katie had just ehaved and could not think what had caused it; he hurtled around a end in the lane and collided with what seemed to e an enormous ear on its hind legs.
"Hagrid!" he panted, disentangling himself from the hedgerow into which he had fallen.
"Harry!" said Hagrid, who had sleet trapped in his eyerows and eard, and was wearing his great, shaggy eaverskin coat. "Jus in visitin Grawp, hes comin on so well yeh wouldn --"
"Hagrid, someones hurt ack there, or cursed, or something --"
"Wha ?" said Hagrid, ending lower to hear what Harry was saying over the raging wind.
"Someones een cursed!" ellowed Harry.
"Cursed? Whos in cursed -- not Ron? Hermione?"
"No, its not them, its Katie Bell -- this way . . ."
Together they ran ack along the lane. It took them no time to find the little group of people around Katie, who was still writhing and screaming on the ground; Ron, Hermione, and Leanne were all trying to quiet her.
"Get ack!" shouted Hagrid. "Lemme see her!"
"Somethings happened to her!" soed Leanne. "I dont know what --"
Hagrid stared at Katie for a second, then without a word, ent down, scooped her into his arms, and ran off toward the castle with her. Within seconds, Katies piercing screams had died away and the only sound was the roar of the wind.
Hermione hurried over to Katies wailing friend and put an arm around her.
"Its Leanne, isnt it?"
The girl nodded.
"Did it just happen all of a sudden, or -- ?"
"It was when that package tore," soed Leanne, pointing at the now sodden rown-paper package on the ground, which had split open to reveal a greenish glitter. Ron ent down, his hand out-stretched, ut Harry seized his arm and pulled him ack.
"Dont touch it!"
He crouched down. An ornate opal necklace was visile, poking out of the paper.
"Ive seen that efore," said Harry, staring at the thing. "It was on display in Borgin and Burkes ages ago. The lael said it was cursed. Katie must have touched it." He looked up at Leanne, who had started to shake uncontrollaly. "How did Katie get hold of this?"
"Well, thats why we were arguing. She came ack from the athroom in the Three Broomsticks holding it, said it was a surprise for someody at Hogwarts and she had to deliver it. She looked all funny when she said it. ... Oh no, oh no, I et shed een Imperiused and I didnt realize!"
Leanne shook with renewed sos. Hermione patted her shoulder gently.
"She didnt say whod given it to her, Leanne?"
"No . . . she wouldnt tell me . . . and I said she was eing stupid and not to take it up to school, ut she just wouldnt listen and . . . and then I tried to gra it from her . . . and -- and --"
Leanne let out a wail of despair.
"Wed etter get up to school," said Hermione, her arm still around Leanne. "Well e ale to find out how she is. Come on. . . ."
Harry hesitated for a moment, then pulled his scarf from around his face and, ignoring Rons gasp, carefully covered the necklace in it and picked it up.
"Well need to show this to Madam Pomfrey," he said.
As they followed Hermione and Leanne up the road, Harry was thinking furiously. They had just entered the grounds when he spoke, unale to keep his thoughts to himself any longer.
"Malfoy knows aout this necklace. It was in a case at Borgin and Burkes four years ago, I saw him having a good look at it while I was hiding from him and his dad. This is what he was uying that day when we followed him! He rememered it and he went ack for it!" ,
"I -- I dunno, Harry," said Ron hesitantly. "Loads of people go to Borgin and Burkes . . . and didnt that girl say Katie got it in the girls athroom?"
"She said she came ack from the athroom with it, she didnt necessarily get it in the athroom itself--"
"McGonagall!" said Ron warningly.
Harry looked up. Sure enough, Professor McGonagall was hurrying down the stone steps through swirling sleet to meet them.
"Hagrid says you four saw what happened to Katie Bell -- upstairs to my office at once, please! Whats that youre holding, Potter?"
"Its the thing she touched," said Harry.
"Good lord," said Professor McGonagall, looking alarmed as she took the necklace from Harry. "No, no, Filch, theyre with me!" she added hastily, as Filch came shuffling eagerly across the entrance hall holding his Secrecy Sensor aloft. "Take this necklace to Professor Snape at once, ut e sure not to touch it, keep it wrapped in the scarf!"
Harry and the others followed Professor McGonagall upstairs and into her office. The sleet-spattered windows were rattling in their frames, and the room was chilly despite the fire crackling in the grate. Professor McGonagall closed the door and swept around her desk to face Harry, Ron, Hermione, and the still soing Leanne.
"Well?" she said sharply. "What happened?"
Haltingly, and with many pauses while she attempted to control her crying, Leanne told Professor McGonagall how Katie had gone to the athroom in the Three Broomsticks and returned holding the unmarked package, how Katie had seemed a little odd, and how they had argued aout the advisaility of agreeing to deliver unknown ojects, the argument culminating in the tussle over the parcel, which tore open. At this point, Leanne was so overcome, there was no getting another word out of her.
"All right," said Professor McGonagall, not unkindly, "go up to the hospital wing, please, Leanne, and get Madam Pomfrey to give you something for shock."
When she had left the room, Professor McGonagall turned ack to Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
"What happened when Katie touched the necklace?"
"She rose up in the air," said Harry, efore either Ron or Hermione could speak, "and then egan to scream, and collapsed. Professor, can I see Professor Dumledore, please?"
"The headmaster is away until Monday, Potter," said Professor McGonagall, looking surprised.
"Away?" Harry repeated angrily.
"Yes, Potter, away!" said Professor McGonagall tartly. "But anything you have to say aout this horrile usiness can e said to me, Im sure!"
For a split second, Harry hesitated. Professor McGonagall did not invite confidences; Dumledore, though in many ways more intimidating, still seemed less likely to scorn a theory, however wild. This was a life-and-death matter, though, and no moment to worry aout eing laughed at.
"I think Draco Malfoy gave Katie that necklace, Professor."
On one side of him, Ron rued his nose in apparent emarrassment; on the other, Hermione shuffled her feet as though quite keen to put a it of distance etween herself and Harry.
"That is a very serious accusation, Potter," said Professor McGonagall, after a shocked pause. "Do you have any proof?"
"No," said Harry, "ut..." and he told her aout following Malfoy to Borgin and Burkes and the conversation they had over-heard etween him and Mr. Borgin.
When he had finished speaking, Professor McGonagall looked slightly confused.
"Malfoy took something to Borgin and Burkes for repair?"
"No, Professor, he just wanted Borgin to tell him how to mend something, he didnt have it with him. But thats not the point, the thing is that he ought something at the same time, and I think it was that necklace --"
"You saw Malfoy leaving the shop with a similar package?"
"No, Professor, he told Borgin to keep it in the shop for him --"
"But Harry," Hermione interrupted, "Borgin asked him if he wanted to take it with him, and Malfoy said no --"
"Because he didnt want to touch it, oviously!" said Harry angrily.
"What he actually said was, How would I look carrying that down the street?" said Hermione.
"Well, he would look a it of a prat carrying a necklace," interjected Ron.
"Oh, Ron," said Hermione despairingly, "it would e all wrapped up, so he wouldnt have to touch it, and quite easy to hide inside a cloak, so noody would see it! I think whatever he reserved at Borgin and Burkes was noisy or ulky, something he knew would draw attention to him if he carried it down the street -- and in any case," she pressed on loudly, efore Harry could interrupt, "I asked Borgin aout the necklace, dont you rememer? When I went in to try and find out what Malfoy had asked him to keep, I saw it there. And Borgin just told me the price, he didnt say it was already sold or anything --"
"Well, you were eing really ovious, he realized what you were up to within aout five seconds, of course he wasnt going to tell you -- anyway, Malfoy couldve sent off for it since --"
"Thats enough!" said Professor McGonagall, as Hermione opened her mouth to retort, looking furious. "Potter, I appreciate you telling me this, ut we cannot point the finger of lame at Mr. Malfoy purely ecause he visited the shop where this necklace might have een purchased. The same is proaly true of hundreds of people --"
"-- thats what I said --" muttered Ron.
"-- and in any case, we have put stringent security measures in place this year. I do not elieve that necklace can possily have entered this school without our knowledge --"
"But --"
"-- and what is more," said Professor McGonagall, with an air of awful finality, "Mr. Malfoy was not in Hogsmeade today."
Harry gaped at her, deflating.
"How do you know, Professor?"
"Because he was doing detention with me. He has now failed to complete his Transfiguration homework twice in a row. So, thank you for telling me your suspicions, Potter," she said as she marched past them, "ut I need to go up to the hospital wing now to check on Katie Bell. Good day to you all."
She held open her office door. They had no choice ut to file past her without another word.
Harry was angry with the other two for siding with McGonagall; nevertheless, he felt compelled to join in once they started discussing what had happened.
"So who do you reckon Katie was supposed to give the necklace to?" asked Ron, as they climed the stairs to the common room.
"Goodness only knows," said Hermione. "But whoever it was has had a narrow escape. No one could have opened that package without touching the necklace."
"It couldve een meant for loads of people," said Harry. "Dumledore -- the Death Eaters would love to get rid of him, he must e one of their top targets. Or Slughorn -- Dumledore reckons Voldemort really wanted him and they cant e pleased that hes sided with Dumledore. Or --"
"Or you," said Hermione, looking trouled.
"Couldnt have een," said Harry, "or Katie wouldve just turned around in the lane and given it to me, wouldnt she? I was ehind her all the way out of the Three Broomsticks. It would have made much more sense to deliver the parcel outside Hogwarts, what with Filch searching everyone who goes in and out. I wonder why Malfoy told her to take it into the castle?"
"Harry, Malfoy wasnt in Hogsmeade!" said Hermione, actually stamping her foot in frustration.
"He must have used an accomplice, then," said Harry. "Crae or Goyle -- or, come to think of it, another Death Eater, hell have loads etter cronies than Crae and Goyle now hes joined up --"
Ron and Hermione exchanged looks that plainly said Theres no point arguing with him.
"Dilligrout," said Hermione firmly as they reached the Fat Lady.
The portrait swung open to admit them to the common room. It was quite full and smelled of damp clothing; many people seemed to have returned from Hogsmeade early ecause of the ad weather. There was no uzz of fear or speculation, however: Clearly, the news of Katies fate had not yet spread.
"It wasnt a very slick attack, really, when you stop and think aout it," said Ron, casually turfing a first year out of one of the good armchairs y the fire so that he could sit down. "The curse didnt even make it into the castle. Not what youd call foolproof."
"Youre right," said Hermione, prodding Ron out of the chair with her foot and offering it to the first year again. "It wasnt very well thought-out at all."
"But since when has Malfoy een one of the worlds great thinkers?" asked Harry.
Neither Ron nor Hermione answered him.
Chapter 13: The Secret Riddle
Katie was removed to St. Mungos Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries the following day, y which time the news that she had een cursed had spread all over the school, though the details were confused and noody other than Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Leanne seemed to know that Katie herself had not een the intended target.
"Oh, and Malfoy knows, of course," said Harry to Ron and Hermione, who continued their new policy of feigning deafness whenever Harry mentioned his Malfoy-Is-a-Death-Eater theory.
Harry had wondered whether Dumledore would return from wherever he had een in time for Monday nights lesson, ut having had no word to the contrary, he presented himself outside Dumledores office at eight oclock, knocked, and was told to enter. There sat Dumledore looking unusually tired; his hand was as lack and urned as ever, ut he smiled when he gestured to Harry to sit down. The Pensieve was sitting on the desk again, casting silvery specks of light over the ceiling.
"You have had a usy time while I have een away," Dumledore said. "I elieve you witnessed Katies accident."
"Yes, sir. How is she?"
"Still very unwell, although she was relatively lucky. She appears to have rushed the necklace with the smallest possile amount of skin; there was a
tiny hole in her glove. Had she put it on, had she even held it in her ungloved hand, she would have died, perhaps instantly. Luckily Professor Snape was ale to do enough to prevent a rapid spread of the curse --"
"Why him?" asked Harry quickly. "Why not Madam Pomfrey?"
"Impertinent," said a soft voice from one of the portraits on the wall, and Phineas Nigellus Black, Siriuss great-great-grandfather, raised his head from his arms where he had appeared to e sleeping. "I would not have permitted a student to question the way Hogwarts operated in my day."
"Yes, thank you, Phineas," said Dumledore quellingly. "Professor Snape knows much more aout the Dark Arts than Madam Pomfrey, Harry. Anyway, the St. Mungos staff are sending me hourly reports, and I am hopeful that Katie will make a full recovery in time."
"Where were you this weekend, sir?" Harry asked, disregarding a strong feeling that he might e pushing his luck, a feeling apparently shared y Phineas Nigellus, who hissed softly.
"I would rather not say just now," said Dumledore. "However, I shall tell you in due course."
"You will?" said Harry, startled.
"Yes, I expect so," said Dumledore, withdrawing a fresh ottle of silver memories from inside his roes and uncorking it with a prod of his wand.
"Sir," said Harry tentatively, "I met Mundungus in Hogsmeade."
"Ah yes, I am already aware that Mundungus has een treating your inheritance with light-fingered contempt," said Dumledore, frowning a little. "He has gone to ground since you accosted him outside the Three Broomsticks; I rather think he dreads facing me. However, rest assured that he will not e making away with any more of Siriuss old possessions."
"That mangy old half-lood has een stealing Black heirlooms?" said Phineas Nigellus, incensed; and he stalked out of his frame, undoutedly to visit his portrait in numer twelve, Grimmauld Place.
"Professor," said Harry, after a short pause, "did Professor McGonagall tell you what I told her after Katie got hurt? Aout Draco Malfoy?"
"She told me of your suspicions, yes," said Dumledore.
"And do you -- ?"
"I shall take all appropriate measures to investigate anyone who might have had a hand in Katies accident," said Dumledore. "But what concerns me now, Harry, is our lesson."
Harry felt slightly resentful at this: If their lessons were so very important, why had there een such a long gap etween the first and second? However, he said no more aout Draco Malfoy, ut watched as Dumledore poured
the fresh memories into the Pensieve and egan swirling the stone asin once more etween his long-fingered hands.
"You will rememer, I am sure, that we left the tale of Lord Voldemorts eginnings at the point where the handsome Muggle, Tom Riddle, had aandoned his witch wife, Merope, and returned to his family home in Little Hangleton. Merope was left alone in London, expecting the ay who would one day ecome Lord Voldemort."
"How do you know she was in London, sir?"
"Because of the evidence of one Caractacus Burke," said Dumledore, "who, y an odd coincidence, helped found the very shop whence came the necklace we have just een discussing."
He swilled the contents of the Pensieve as Harry had seen him swill them efore, much as a gold prospector sifts for gold. Up out of the swirling, silvery mass rose a little old man revolving slowly in the Pensieve, silver as a ghost ut much more solid, with a thatch of hair that completely covered his eyes.
"Yes, we acquired it in curious circumstances. It was rought in y a young witch just efore Christmas, oh, many years ago now. She said she needed the gold adly, well, that much was ovious. Covered in rags and pretty far along . . . Going to have a ay, see. She said the locket had een Slytherins. Well, we hear that sort of story all the time, Oh, this was Merlins, this was, his favorite teapot, ut when I looked at it, it had his
mark all right, and a few simple spells were enough to tell me the truth. Of course, that made it near enough priceless. She didnt seem to have any idea how much it was worth. Happy to get ten Galleons for it. Best argain we ever made!"
Dumledore gave the Pensieve an extra-vigorous shake and Caractacus Burke descended ack into the swirling mass of memory from whence he had come.
"He only gave her ten Galleons?" said Harry indignantly.
"Caractacus Burke was not famed for his generosity," said Dumledore. "So we know that, near the end of her pregnancy, Merope was alone in London and in desperate need of gold, desperate enough to sell her one and only valuale possession, the locket that was one of Marvolos treasured family heirlooms."
"But she could do magic!" said Harry impatiently. "She could have got food and everything for herself y magic, couldnt she?"
"Ah," said Dumledore, "perhaps she could. But it is my elief--I am guessing again, ut I am sure I am right -- that when her husand aandoned her, Merope stopped using magic. I do not think that she wanted to e a witch any longer. Of course, it is also possile that her unrequited love and the attendant despair sapped her of her powers; that can happen. In any case, as you are aout to see, Merope refused to raise her wand even to save her own life."
"She wouldnt even stay alive for her son?"
Dumledore raised his eyerows. "Could you possily e feeling sorry for Lord Voldemort?"
"No," said Harry quickly, "ut she had a choice, didnt she, not like my mother --"
"Your mother had a choice too," said Dumledore gently. "Yes, Merope Riddle chose death in spite of a son who needed her, ut do not judge her too harshly, Harry. She was greatly weakened y long suffering and she never had your mothers courage. And now, if you will stand ..."
"Where are we going?" Harry asked, as Dumledore joined him at the front of the desk.
"This time," said Dumledore, "we are going to enter my memory. I think you will find it oth rich in detail and satisfyingly accurate. After you, Harry ..."
Harry ent over the Pensieve; his face roke the cool surface of the memory and then he was falling through darkness again. . . . Seconds later, his feet hit firm ground; he opened his eyes and found that he and Dumledore were standing in a ustling, old-fashioned London street.
"There I am," said Dumledore rightly, pointing ahead of them to a tall figure crossing the road in front of a horse-drawn milk cart.
This younger Alus Dumledores long hair and eard were auurn. Having reached their side of the street, he strode off along the pavement, drawing many curious glances due to the flamoyantly cut suit of plum velvet that he was wearing.
"Nice suit, sir," said Harry, efore he could stop himself, ut Dumledore merely chuckled as they followed his younger self a short distance, finally passing through a set of iron gates into a are courtyard that fronted a rather grim, square uilding surrounded y high railings. He mounted the few steps leading to the front door and knocked once. After a moment or two, the door was opened y a scruffy girl wearing an apron.
"Good afternoon. I have an appointment with a Mrs. Cole, who, I elieve, is the matron here?"
"Oh," said the ewildered-looking girl, taking in Dumledores eccentric appearance. "Um. . . just a mo . . . MRS. COLE!" she ellowed over her shoulder.
Harry heard a distant voice shouting something in response. The girl turned ack to Dumledore. "Come in, shes on er way."
Dumledore stepped into a hallway tiled in lack and white; the whole place was shay ut spotlessly clean. Harry and the older Dumledore
followed. Before the front door had closed ehind them, a skinny, harassed-looking woman came scurrying toward them. She had a sharp-featured face that appeared more anxious than unkind, and she was talking over her shoulder to another aproned helper as she walked toward Dumledore.
". . . and take the iodine upstairs to Martha, Billy Stus has een picking his scas and Eric Whalleys oozing all over his sheets -- chicken pox on top of everything else," she said to noody in particular, and then her eyes fell upon Dumledore and she stopped dead in her tracks, looking as astonished as if a giraffe had just crossed her threshold.
"Good afternoon," said Dumledore, holding out his hand. Mrs. Cole simply gaped.
"My name is Alus Dumledore. I sent you a letter requesting an appointment and you very kindly invited me here today."
Mrs. Cole linked. Apparently deciding that Dumledore was not a hallucination, she said feely, "Oh yes. Well -- well then -- youd etter come into my room. Yes."
She led Dumledore into a small room that seemed part sitting room, part office. It was as shay as the hallway and the furniture was old and mismatched. She invited Dumledore to sit on a rickety chair and seated herself ehind a cluttered desk, eyeing him nervously.
"I am here, as I told you in my letter, to discuss Tom Riddle and arrangements for his future," said Dumledore.
"Are you family?" asked Mrs. Cole.
"No, I am a teacher," said Dumledore. "I have come to offer Tom a place at my school."
"What schools this, then?"
"It is called Hogwarts," said Dumledore.
"And how come youre interested in Tom?"
"We elieve he has qualities we are looking for."
"You mean hes won a scholarship? How can he have done? Hes never een entered for one."
"Well, his name has een down for our school since irth --"
"Who registered him? His parents?"
There was no dout that Mrs. Cole was an inconveniently sharp woman. Apparently Dumledore thought so too, for Harry now saw him slip his wand out of the pocket of his velvet suit, at the same time picking up a piece of perfectly lank paper from Mrs. Coles desktop.
"Here," said Dumledore, waving his wand once as he passed her the piece of paper, "I think this will make everything clear."
Mrs. Coles eyes slid out of focus and ack again as she gazed intently at the lank paper for a moment.
"That seems perfectly in order," she said placidly, handing it ack. Then her eyes fell upon a ottle of gin and two glasses that had certainly not een present a few seconds efore.
"Er -- may I offer you a glass of gin?" she said in an extra-refined voice.
"Thank you very much," said Dumledore, eaming.
It soon ecame clear that Mrs. Cole was no novice when it came to gin drinking. Pouring oth of them a generous measure, she drained her own glass in one gulp. Smacking her lips frankly, she smiled at Dumledore for the first time, and he didnt hesitate to press his advantage.
"I was wondering whether you could tell me anything of Tom Riddles history? I think he was orn here in the orphanage?"
"Thats right," said Mrs. Cole, helping herself to more gin. "I rememer it clear as anything, ecause Id just started here myself. New Years Eve and itter cold, snowing, you know. Nasty night. And this girl, not much older than I was myself at the time, came staggering up the front steps. Well, she
wasnt the first. We took her in, and she had the ay within the hour. And she was dead in another hour."
Mrs. Cole nodded impressively and took another generous gulp of gin.
"Did she say anything efore she died?" asked Dumledore. "Anything aout the oys father, for instance?"
"Now, as it happens, she did," said Mrs. Cole, who seemed to e rather enjoying herself now, with the gin in her hand and an eager audience for her story. "I rememer she said to me, I hope he looks like his papa, and I wont lie, she was right to hope it, ecause she was no eauty -- and then she told me he was to e named Tom, for his father, and Marvolo, for her father -- yes, I know, funny name, isnt it? We wondered whether she came from a circus -- and she said the oys surname was to e Riddle. And she died soon after that without another word.
"Well, we named him just as shed said, it seemed so important to the poor girl, ut no Tom nor Marvolo nor any kind of Riddle ever came looking for him, nor any family at all, so he stayed in the orphanage and hes een here ever since."
Mrs. Cole helped herself, almost asentmindedly, to another healthy measure of gin. Two pink spots had appeared high on her cheekones. Then she said, "Hes a funny oy."
"Yes," said Dumledore. "I thought he might e."
"He was a funny ay too. He hardly ever cried, you know. And then, when he got a little older, he was. . . odd."
"Odd in what way?" asked Dumledore gently.
"Well, he --"
But Mrs. Cole pulled up short, and there was nothing lurry or vague aout the inquisitorial glance she shot Dumledore over her gin glass.
"Hes definitely got a place at your school, you say?"
"Definitely," said Dumledore.
"And nothing I say can change that?"
"Nothing," said Dumledore.
"Youll e taking him away, whatever?"
"Whatever," repeated Dumledore gravely.
She squinted at him as though deciding whether or not to trust him. Apparently she decided she could, ecause she said in a sudden rush, "He scares the other children."
"You mean he is a ully?" asked Dumledore.
"I think he must e," said Mrs. Cole, frowning slightly, "ut its very hard to catch him at it. There have een incidents. . . . Nasty things ..."
Dumledore did not press her, though Harry could tell that he was interested. She took yet another gulp of gin and her rosy cheeks grew rosier still.
"Billy Stuss rait. . . well, Tom said he didnt do it and I dont see how he could have done, ut even so, it didnt hang itself from the rafters, did it?"
"I shouldnt think so, no," said Dumledore quietly.
"But Im jiggered if I know how he got up there to do it. All I know is he and Billy had argued the day efore. And then" -- Mrs. Cole took another swig of gin, slopping a little over her chin this time -- "on the summer outing -- we take them out, you know, once a year, to the countryside or to the seaside -- well, Amy Benson and Dennis Bishop were never quite right afterwards, and all we ever got out of them was that theyd gone into a cave with Tom Riddle. He swore theyd just gone exploring, ut something happened in there, Im sure of it. And, well, there have een a lot of things, funny things. . . ."
She looked around at Dumledore again, and though her cheeks were flushed, her gaze was steady. "I dont think many people will e sorry to see the ack of him."
"You understand, Im sure, that we will not e keeping him permanently?" said Dumledore. "He will have to return here, at the very least, every summer."
"Oh, well, thats etter than a whack on the nose with a rusty poker," said Mrs. Cole with a slight hiccup. She got to her feet, and Harry was impressed to see that she was quite steady, even though two-thirds of the gin was now gone. "I suppose youd like to see him?"
"Very much," said Dumledore, rising too.
She led him out of her office and up the stone stairs, calling out instructions and admonitions to helpers and children as she passed. The orphans, Harry saw, were all wearing the same kind of grayish tunic. They looked reasonaly well-cared for, ut there was no denying that this was a grim place in which to grow up.
"Here we are," said Mrs. Cole, as they turned off the second landing and stopped outside the first door in a long corridor. She knocked twice and entered.
"Tom? Youve got a visitor. This is Mr. Dumerton -- sorry, Dunderore. Hes come to tell you -- well, Ill let him do it."
Harry and the two Dumledores entered the room, and Mrs. Cole closed the door on them. It was a small are room with nothing in it except an old
wardroe and an iron edstead. A oy was sitting on top of the gray lankets, his legs stretched out in front of him, holding a ook.
There was no trace of the Gaunts in Tom Riddles face. Merope had got her dying wish: He was his handsome father in miniature, tall for eleven years old, dark-haired, and pale. His eyes narrowed slightly as he took in Dumledores eccentric appearance. There was a moments silence.
"How do you do, Tom?" said Dumledore, walking forward and holding out his hand.
The oy hesitated, then took it, and they shook hands. Dumledore drew up the hard wooden chair eside Riddle, so that the pair of them looked rather like a hospital patient and visitor.
"I am Professor Dumledore."
"Professor?" repeated Riddle. He looked wary. "Is that like doctor? What are you here for? Did she get you in to have a look at me?"
He was pointing at the door through which Mrs. Cole had just left.
"No, no," said Dumledore, smiling.
"I dont elieve you," said Riddle. "She wants me looked at, doesnt she? Tell the truth!"
He spoke the last three words with a ringing force that was almost shocking. It was a command, and it sounded as though he had given it many times efore. His eyes had widened and he was glaring at Dumledore, who made no response except to continue smiling pleasantly. After a few seconds Riddle stopped glaring, though he looked, if anything, warier still.
"Who are you?"
"I have told you. My name is Professor Dumledore and I work at a school called Hogwarts. I have come to offer you a place at my school -- your new school, if you would like to come."
Riddles reaction to this was most surprising. He leapt from the ed and acked away from Dumledore, looking furious.
"You cant kid me! The asylum, thats where youre from, isnt it? Professor, yes, of course -- well, Im not going, see? That old cats the one who should e in the asylum. I never did anything to little Amy Benson or Dennis Bishop, and you can ask them, theyll tell you!
"I am not from the asylum," said Dumledore patiently. "I am a teacher and, if you will sit down calmly, I shall tell you aout Hogwarts. Of course, if you would rather not come to the school, noody will force you --"
"Id like to see them try," sneered Riddle.
"Hogwarts," Dumledore went on, as though he had not heard Riddles last words, "is a school for people with special ailities --"
"Im not mad!"
"I know that you are not mad. Hogwarts is not a school for mad people. It is a school of magic."
There was silence. Riddle had frozen, his face expressionless, ut his eyes were flickering ack and forth etween each of Dumledores, as though trying to catch one of them lying.
"Magic?" he repeated in a whisper.
"Thats right," said Dumledore.
"Its. . . its magic, what I can do?"
"What is it that you can do?"
"All sorts," reathed Riddle. A flush of excitement was rising up his neck into his hollow cheeks; he looked fevered. "I can make filings move without touching them. I can make animals do what I want them to do, without training them. I can make ad things happen to people who annoy me. I can make them hurt if I want to."
His legs were tremling. He stumled forward and sat down on the ed again, staring at his hands, his head owed as though in prayer.
"I knew I was different," he whispered to his own quivering fingers. "I knew I was special. Always, I knew there was something."
"Well, you were quite right," said Dumledore, who was no longer smiling, ut watching Riddle intently. "You are a wizard."
Riddle lifted his head. His face was transfigured: There was a wild happiness upon it, yet for some reason it did not make him etter looking; on the contrary, his finely carved features seemed somehow rougher, his expression almost estial.
"Are you a wizard too?"
"Yes, I am."
"Prove it," said Riddle at once, in the same commanding tone he had used when he had said, "Tell the truth."
Dumledore raised his eyerows. "If, as I take it, you are accepting your place at Hogwarts--"
"Of course I am!"
"Then you will address me as Professor or sir."
Riddles expression hardened for the most fleeting moment efore he said, in an unrecognizaly polite voice, "Im sorry, sir. I meant -- please, Professor, could you show me -- ?"
Harry was sure that Dumledore was going to refuse, that he would tell Riddle there would e plenty of time for practical demonstrations at Hogwarts, that they were currently in a uilding full of Muggles and must therefore e cautious. To his great surprise, however, Dumledore drew his wand from an inside pocket of his suit jacket, pointed it at the shay wardroe in the corner, and gave the wand a casual flick.
The wardroe urst into flames.
Riddle jumped to his feet; Harry could hardly lame him for howling in shock and rage; all his worldly possessions must e in there. But even as Riddle rounded on Dumledore, the flames vanished, leaving the wardroe completely undamaged.
Riddle stared from the wardroe to Dumledore; then, his expression greedy, he pointed at the wand. "Where can I get one of them?"
"All in good time," said Dumledore. "I think there is something trying to get out of your wardroe."
And sure enough, a faint rattling could e heard from inside it. For the first time, Riddle looked frightened.
"Open the door," said Dumledore.
Riddle hesitated, then crossed the room and threw open the wardroe door. On the topmost shelf, aove a rail of threadare clothes, a small cardoard ox was shaking and rattling as though there were several frantic mice trapped inside it.
"Take it out," said Dumledore.
Riddle took down the quaking ox. He looked unnerved.
"Is there anything in that ox that you ought not to have?" asked Dumledore.
Riddle threw Dumledore a long, clear, calculating look. "Yes, I suppose so, sir," he said finally, in an expressionless voice.
"Open it," said Dumledore.
Riddle took off the lid and tipped the contents onto his ed without looking at them. Harry, who had expected something much more exciting, saw a mess of small, everyday ojects: a yo-yo, a silver thimle, and a tarnished mouth organ among them. Once free of the ox, they stopped quivering and lay quite still upon the thin lankets.
"You will return them to their owners with your apologies," said Dumledore calmly, putting his wand ack into his jacket. "I shall know whether it has een done. And e warned: Thieving is not tolerated at Hogwarts."
Riddle did not look remotely aashed; he was still staring coldly and appraisingly at Dumledore. At last he said in a colorless voice, "Yes, sir."
"At Hogwarts," Dumledore went on, "we teach you not only to use magic, ut to control it. You have -- inadvertently, I am sure -- een using your powers in a way that is neither taught nor tolerated at our school. You are not the first, nor will you e the last, to allow your magic to run away with you. But you should know that Hogwarts can expel students, and the Ministry of Magic -- yes, there is a Ministry -- will punish lawreakers still more severely. All new wizards must accept that, in entering our world, they aide y our laws."
"Yes, sir," said Riddle again.
It was impossile to tell what he was thinking; his face remained quite lank as he put the little cache of stolen ojects ack into the cardoard ox. When he had finished, he turned to Dumledore and said aldly, "I havent got any money."
"That is easily remedied," said Dumledore, drawing a leather money-pouch from his pocket. "There is a fund at Hogwarts for those who require
assistance to uy ooks and roes. You might have to uy some of your spellooks and so on secondhand, ut --"
"Where do you uy spellooks?" interrupted Riddle, who had taken the heavy money ag without thanking Dumledore, and was now examining a fat gold Galleon,
"In Diagon Alley," said Dumledore. "I have your list of ooks and school equipment with me. I can help you find everything --"
"Youre coming with me?" asked Riddle, looking up.
"Certainly, if you --"
"I dont need you," said Riddle. "Im used to doing things for myself, I go round London on my own all the time. How do you get to this Diagon Alley -- sir?" he added, catching Dumledores eye.
Harry thought that Dumledore would insist upon accompanying Riddle, ut once again he was surprised. Dumledore handed Riddle the envelope containing his list of equipment, and after telling Riddle exactly how to get to the Leaky Cauldron from the orphanage, he said, "You will e ale to see it, although Muggles around you -- non-magical people, that is -- will not. Ask for Tom the arman -- easy enough to rememer, as he shares your name --"
Riddle gave an irritale twitch, as though trying to displace an irksome fly.
"You dislike the name Tom?"
"There are a lot of Toms," muttered Riddle. Then, as though he could not suppress the question, as though it urst from him in spite of himself, he asked, "Was my father a wizard? He was called Tom Riddle too, theyve told me."
"Im afraid I dont know," said Dumledore, his voice gentle.
"My mother cant have een magic, or she wouldnt have died," said Riddle, more to himself than Dumledore. "It mustve een him. So -- when Ive got all my stuff-- when do I come to this Hogwarts?"
"All the details are on the second piece of parchment in your envelope," said Dumledore. "You will leave from Kings Cross Station on the first of Septemer. There is a train ticket in there too."
Riddle nodded. Dumledore got to his feet and held out his hand again. Taking it, Riddle said, "I can speak to snakes. I found out when weve een to the country on trips -- they find me, they whisper to me. Is that normal for a wizard?"
Harry could tell that he had withheld mention of this strangest power until that moment, determined to impress.
"It is unusual," said Dumledore, after a moments hesitation, "ut not unheard of."
His tone was casual ut his eyes moved curiously over Riddles face. They stood for a moment, man and oy, staring at each other. Then the handshake was roken; Dumledore was at the door.
"Good-ye, Tom. I shall see you at Hogwarts."
"I think that will do," said the white-haired Dumledore at Harrys side, and seconds later, they were soaring weightlessly through darkness once more, efore landing squarely in the present-day office.
"Sit down," said Dumledore, landing eside Harry.
Harry oeyed, his mind still full of what he had just seen.
"He elieved it much quicker than I did -- I mean, when you told him he was a wizard," said Harry. "I didnt elieve Hagrid at first, when he told me."
"Yes, Riddle was perfectly ready to elieve that he was -- to use his word -- special," said Dumledore.
"Did you know -- then?" asked Harry.
"Did I know that I had just met the most dangerous Dark wizard of all time?" said Dumledore. "No, I had no idea that he was to grow up to e what he is. However, I was certainly intrigued y him. I returned to Hogwarts intending to keep an eye upon him, something I should have done in any case, given that he was alone and friendless, ut which, already, I felt I ought to do for others sake as much as his.
"His powers, as you heard, were surprisingly well-developed for such a young wizard and -- most interestingly and ominously of all -- he had already discovered that he had some measure of control over them, and egun to use them consciously. And as you saw, they were not the random experiments typical of young wizards: He was already using magic against other people, to frighten, to punish, to control. The little stories of the strangled rait and the young oy and girl he lured into a cave were most suggestive. . . . I can make them hurt if I want to. . . ."
"And he was a Parselmouth," interjected Harry.
"Yes, indeed; a rare aility, and one supposedly connected with the Dark Arts, although as we know, there are Parselmouths among the great and the good too. In fact, his aility to speak to serpents did not make me nearly as uneasy as his ovious instincts for cruelty, secrecy, and domination.
"Time is making fools of us again," said Dumledore, indicating the dark sky eyond the windows. "But efore we part, I want to draw your attention to certain features of the scene we have just witnessed, for they have a great earing on the matters we shall e discussing in future meetings.
"Firstly, I hope you noticed Riddles reaction when I mentioned that another shared his first name, Tom?"
Harry nodded.
"There he showed his contempt for anything that tied him to other people, anything that made him ordinary. Even then, he wished to e different, separate, notorious. He shed his name, as you know, within a few short years of that conversation and created the mask of ‘Lord Voldemort ehind which he has een hidden for so long.
"I trust that you also noticed that Tom Riddle was already highly self-sufficient, secretive, and, apparently, friendless? He did not want help or companionship on his trip to Diagon Alley. He preferred to operate alone. The adult Voldemort is the same. You will hear many of his Death Eaters claiming that they are in his confidence, that they alone are close to him, even understand him. They are deluded. Lord Voldemort has never had a friend, nor do I elieve that he has ever wanted one.
"And lastly -- I hope you are not too sleepy to pay attention to this, Harry -- the young Tom Riddle liked to collect trophies. You saw the ox of stolen articles he had hidden in his room. These were taken from victims of his ullying ehavior, souvenirs, if you will, of particularly unpleasant its of magic. Bear in mind this magpie-like tendency, for this, particularly, will e important later.
"And now, it really is time for ed."
Harry got to his feet. As he walked across the room, his eyes fell I upon the little tale on which Marvolo Gaunts ring had rested last I time, ut the ring was no longer there.
"Yes, Harry?" said Dumledore, for Harry had come to a halt.
"The rings gone," said Harry, looking around. "But I thought I you might have the mouth organ or something."
Dumledore eamed at him, peering over the top of his halfw moon spectacles.
"Very astute, Harry, ut the mouth organ was only ever a mouth organ."
And on that enigmatic note he waved to Harry, who understood himself to e dismissed.
Chapter 14: Felix Felicis
Harry had Herology first thing the following morning. He had een unale to tell Ron and Hermione aout his lesson with Dumledore over reakfast for fear of eing over-heard, ut he filled them in as they walked across the vegetale patch toward the greenhouses. The weekend’s rutal wind had died out at last; the weird mist had returned and it took them a little longer than usual to find the correct greenhouse.
"Wow, scary thought, the oy You-Know-Who," said Ron qui-etly, as they took their places around one of the gnarled Snargaluff stumps that formed this terms project, and egan pulling on their protective gloves. "But I still dont get why Dumledores showing you all this. I mean, its really interesting and everything, ut whats the point?"
"Dunno," said Harry, inserting a gum shield. "But he says its all important and itll help me survive."
"I think its fascinating," said Hermione earnestly. "It makes asolute sense to know as much aout Voldemort as possile. How else will you find out his weaknesses?"
"So how was Slughorns latest party?" Harry asked her thickly through the gum shield.
"Oh, it was quite fun, really," said Hermione, now putting on protective goggles. "I mean, he drones on aout famous exploits a it, and he
asolutely fawns on McLaggen ecause hes so well connected, ut he gave us some really nice food and he introduced us to Gwenog Jones."
"Gwenog Jones?" said Ron, his eyes widening under his own goggles. "The Gwenog Jones? Captain of the Holyhead Harpies?"
"Thats right," said Hermione. "Personally, I thought she was a it full of herself, ut --"
"Quite enough chat over here!" said Professor Sprout riskly, ustling over and looking stern. "Youre lagging ehind, everyody else has started, and Nevilles already got his first pod!"
They looked around; sure enough, there sat Neville with a loody lip and several nasty scratches along the side of his face, ut clutching an unpleasantly pulsating green oject aout the size of a grapefruit.
"Okay, Professor, were starting now!" said Ron, adding quietly, when she had turned away again, "should ve used Muffliato, Harry."
"No, we shouldnt!" said Hermione at once, looking, as she always did, intensely cross at the thought of the Half-Blood Prince and his spells. "Well, come on ... wed etter get going. ..."
She gave the other two an apprehensive look; they all took deep reaths and then dived at the gnarled stump etween them.
It sprang to life at once; long, prickly, ramlelike vines flew out of the top and whipped through the air. One tangled itself in Hermiones hair, and Ron eat it ack with a pair of secateurs; Harry succeeded in trapping a couple of vines and knotting them together; a hole opened in the middle of all the tentaclelike ranches; Hermione plunged her arm ravely into this hole, which closed like a trap around her elow; Harry and Ron tugged and wrenched at the vines, forcing the hole to open again, and Hermi-one snatched her arm free, clutching in her fingers a pod just like Nevilles. At once, the prickly vines shot ack inside, and the gnarled stump sat there looking like an innocently dead lump of wood.
"You know, I dont think Ill e having any of these in my garden when Ive got my own place," said Ron, pushing his goggles up onto his forehead and wiping sweat from his face.
"Pass me a owl," said Hermione, holding the pulsating pod at arms length; Harry handed one over and she dropped the pod into it with a look of disgust on her face.
"Dont e squeamish, squeeze it out, theyre est when theyre fresh!" called Professor Sprout.
"Anyway," said Hermione, continuing their interrupted conver-sation as though a lump of wood had not just attacked them, "Slughorns going to have a Christmas party, Harry, and theres no way youll e ale to wriggle out of this one ecause he actually asked me to check your free evenings, so he could e sure to have it on a night you can come."
Harry groaned. Meanwhile, Ron, who was attempting to urst the pod in the owl y putting oth hands on it, standing up, and squashing it as hard as he could, said angrily, "And this is another party just for Slughorns favorites, is it?"
"Just for the Slug Clu, yes," said Hermione.
The pod flew out from under Rons fingers and hit the green house glass, reounding onto the ack of Professor Sprouts head and knocking off her old, patched hat. Harry went to retrieve the pod; when he got ack, Hermione was saying, "Look, I didnt make up the name Slug Clu --"
"Slug Clu,"repeated Ron with a sneer worthy of Malfoy. "Its pathetic. Well, I hope you enjoy your party. Why dont you try hooking up with McLaggen, then Slughorn can make you King and Queen Slug --"
"Were allowed to ring guests," said Hermione, who for some reason had turned a right, oiling scarlet, "and I was going to ask you to come, ut if you think its that stupid then I wont other!"
Harry suddenly wished the pod had flown a little farther, so that he need not have een sitting here with the pair of them. Unno-ticed y either, he seized the owl that contained the pod and e-gan to try and open it y the noisiest and most energetic means he could think of; unfortunately, he could still hear every word of their conversation.
"You were going to ask me?" asked Ron, in a completely differ-ent voice.
"Yes," said Hermione angrily. "But oviously if youd rather 1 hooked up with McLaggen ..."
There was a pause while Harry continued to pound the resilient pod with a trowel.
"No, I wouldnt," said Ron, in a very quiet voice.
Harry missed the pod, hit the owl, and shattered it.
‘"Reparo," he said hastily, poking the pieces with his wand, and the owl sprang ack together again. The crash, however, appeared to have awoken Ron and Hermione to Harrys presence. Hermione looked flustered and immediately started fussing aout for her copy of "Flesh-Eating Trees of the World" to find out the correct way to juice Snargaluff pods; Ron, on the other hand, looked sheepish ut also rather pleased with himself.
"Hand that over, Harry," said Hermione hurriedly. "It says were supposed to puncture them with something sharp. . . ."
Harry passed her the pod in the owl; he and Ron oth snapped their goggles ack over their eyes and dived, once more, for the stump. It was not as though he was really surprised, thought Harry, as he wrestled with a thorny vine intent upon throttling him; he had had an inkling that this might happen sooner or later. But he was not sure how he felt aout it. ... He and
Cho were now too em-arrassed to look at each other, let alone talk to each other; what if Ron and Hermione started going out together, then split up? Could their friendship survive it? Harry rememered the few weeks when they had not een talking to each other in the third year; he had not enjoyed trying to ridge the distance etween them. And then, what if they didnt split up? What if they ecame like Bill and Fleur, and it ecame excruciatingly emarrassing to e in their presence, so that he was shut out for good?
"Gotcha!" yelled Ron, pulling a second pod from the stump just as Hermione managed to urst the first one open, so that the owl was full of tuers wriggling like pale green worms.
The rest of the lesson passed without further mention of Slughorns party. Although Harry watched his two friends more closely over the next few days, Ron and Hermione did not seem any different except that they were a little politer to each other than usual. Harry supposed he would just have to wait to see what
happened under the influence of uttereer in Slughorns dimly lit room on the night of the party. In the meantime, however, he had more pressing worries.
Katie Bell was still in St. Mungos Hospital with no prospect of leaving, which meant that the promising Gryffindor team Harry had een training so carefully since Septemer was one Chaser short. He kept putting off replacing Katie in the hope that she would return, ut their opening match
against Slytherin was loom-ing, and he finally had to accept that she would not e ack in time to play.
Harry did not think he could stand another full-House tryout. With a sinking feeling that had little to do with Quidditch, he cor-nered Dean Thomas after Transfiguration one day. Most of the class had already left, although several twittering yellow irds were still zooming around the room, all of Hermiones creation; noody else had succeeded in conjuring so much as a feather from thin air.
"Are you still interested in playing Chaser?"
"Wha -- ? Yeah, of course!" said Dean excitedly. Over Dean’s shoulder, Harry saw Seamus Finnegan slamming his ooks into his ag, looking sour. One of the reasons why Harry would have pre-ferred not to have to ask Dean to play was that he knew Seamus would not like it. On the other hand, he had to do what was est for the team, and Dean had outflown Seamus at the tryouts.
"Well then, youre in," said Harry. "Theres a practice tonight, seven oclock."
"Right," said Dean. "Cheers, Harry! Blimey, I cant wait to tell Ginny!"
He sprinted out of the room, leaving Harry and Seamus alone together, an uncomfortale moment made no easier when a ird dropping landed on Seamuss head as one of Hermiones canaries whizzed over them.
Seamus was not the only person disgruntled y the choice of Katie’s sustitute. There was much muttering in the common room aout the fact that Harry had now chosen two of his class-mates for the team. As Harry had endured much worse mutterings than this in his school career, he was not particularly othered, ut all the same, the pressure was increasing to provide a win in the upcoming match against Slytherin. If Gryffindor won, Harry knew that the whole House would forget that they had criticized him and swear that they had always known it was a great team. If they lost. . . well, Harry thought wryly, he had still endured worse mutterings. . . .
Harry had no reason to regret his choice once he saw Dean fly that evening; he worked well with Ginny and Demelza. The Beaters, Peakes and Coote, were getting etter all the time. The only prolem was Ron.
Harry had known all along that Ron was an inconsistent player who suffered from nerves and a lack of confidence, and unfortu-nately, the looming prospect of the opening game of the season seemed to have rought out all his old insecurities. After letting in half a dozen goals, most of them scored y Ginny, his technique ecame wilder and wilder, until he finally punched an oncoming Demelza Roins in the mouth.
"It was an accident, Im sorry, Demelza, really sorry!" Ron shouted after her as she zigzagged ack to the ground, dripping lood everywhere. "I just --"
"Panicked," Ginny said angrily, landing next to Demelza and examining her fat lip. "You prat, Ron, look at the state of her!"
"I can fix that," said Harry, landing eside the two girls, pointing his wand at Demelzas mouth, and saying "Episkey." "And Ginny, dont call Ron a prat, youre not the Captain of this team --"
"Well, you seemed too usy to call him a prat and I thought someone should --"
Harry forced himself not to laugh.
"In the air, everyone, lets go. . . ."
Overall it was one of the worst practices they had had all term, though Harry did not feel that honesty was the est policy when they were this close to the match.
"Good work, everyone, I think well flatten Slytherin," he said racingly, and the Chasers and Beaters left the changing room looking reasonaly happy with themselves.
"I played like a sack of dragon dung," said Ron in a hollow voice when the door had swung shut ehind Ginny.
"No, you didnt," said Harry firmly. "Youre the est Keeper I tried out, Ron. Your only prolem is nerves."
He kept up a relentless flow of encouragement all the way ack to the castle, and y the time they reached the second floor, Ron was looking marginally more cheerful. When Harry pushed open the tapestry to take their usual shortcut up to Gryffindor Tower, however, they found themselves looking at Dean and Ginny, who were locked in a close emrace and kissing fiercely as though glued together.
It was as though something large and scaly erupted into life in Harrys stomach, clawing at his insides: Hot lood seemed to flood his rain, so that all thought was extinguished, replaced y a savage urge to jinx Dean into a jelly. Wrestling with this sudden madness, he heard Rons voice as though from a great distance away.
"Oi!"
Dean and Ginny roke apart and looked around. "What?" said Ginny.
"I dont want to find my own sister snogging people in pulic!" "This was a deserted corridor till you came utting in!" said Ginny.
Dean was looking emarrassed. He gave Harry a shifty grin that Harry did not return, as the neworn monster inside him was roar-ing for Deans instant dismissal from the team.
"Er . . . cmon, Ginny," said Dean, "lets go ack to the common room. ..."
"You go!" said Ginny. "I want a word with my dear rother!" Dean left, looking as though he was not sorry to depart the scene.
"Right," said Ginny, tossing her long red hair out of her face and glaring at Ron, "lets get this straight once and for all. It is none of your usiness who I go out with or what I do with them, Ron --" "Yeah, it is!" said Ron, just as angrily. "D you think I want peo-ple saying my sisters a --"
"A what?" shouted Ginny, drawing her wand. "A what, exactly?" "He doesnt mean anything, Ginny --" said Harry automati-cally, though the monster was roaring its approval of Rons words. "Oh yes he does!" she said, flaring up at Harry. "Just ecause hes never snogged anyone in his life, just ecause the est kiss hes ever had is from our Auntie Muriel --"
"Shut your mouth!" ellowed Ron, ypassing red and turning maroon.
"No, I will not!" yelled Ginny, eside herself. "Ive seen you with Phlegm, hoping shell kiss you on the cheek every time you see her, its pathetic! If you went out and got a it of snogging done your self, you wouldnt mind so much that everyone else does it!"
Ron had pulled out his wand too; Harry stepped swiftly etween them.
"You dont know what youre talking aout!" Ron roared, trying to get a clear shot at Ginny around Harry, who was now standing in front of her with his arms outstretched. "Just ecause I dont do it in pulic -- !"
Ginny screamed with derisive laughter, trying to push Harry out of the way.
"Been kissing Pigwidgeon, have you? Or have you got a picture of Auntie Muriel stashed under your pillow?" You --
A streak of orange light flew under Harrys left arm and missed Ginny y inches; Harry pushed Ron up against the wall.
"Dont e stupid --"
"Harrys snogged Cho Chang!" shouted Ginny, who sounded close to tears now. "And Hermione snogged Viktor Krum, its only you who acts like its something disgusting, Ron, and thats ecause youve got aout as much experience as a twelve-year-old!"
And with that, she stormed away. Harry quickly let go of Ron; the look on his face was murderous. They oth stood there, reath-ing heavily, until Mrs. Norris, Richs cat, appeared around the cor-ner, which roke the tension.
"Cmon," said Harry, as the sound of Filchs shuffling feet reached their ears.
They hurried up the stairs and along a seventh-floor corridor. "Oi, out of the way!" Ron arked at a small girl who jumped in fright and dropped a ottle of toadspawn.
Harry hardly noticed the sound of shattering glass; he felt dis-oriented, dizzy; eing struck y a lightning olt must e something like this. Its just ecause shes Ron’s sister, he told himself. You just didnt like seeing her kissing Dean ecause shes Rons sister. . . .
But unidden into his mind came an image of that same de-serted corridor with himself kissing Ginny instead. . . . The mon-ster in his chest purred . . . ut then he saw Ron ripping open the tapestry curtain and drawing his wand on Harry, shouting things like "etrayal of trust" . . . "supposed to e my friend" . . .
"Dyou think Hermione did snog Krum?" Ron asked aruptly, as they approached the Fat Lady. Harry gave a guilty start and wrenched his imagination away from a corridor in which no Ron intruded, in which he and Ginny were quite alone -- "What?" he said confusedly. "Oh ... er ..." The honest answer was "yes," ut he did not want to give it. However, Ron seemed to gather the worst from the look on Harrys face.
"Dilligrout," he said darkly to the Fat Lady, and they climed through the portrait hole into the common room.
Neither of them mentioned Ginny or Hermione again; indeed, they arely spoke to each other that evening and got into ed in si-lence, each asored in his own thoughts,
Harry lay awake for a long time, looking up at the canopy of his four-poster and trying to convince himself that his feelings for Ginny were entirely elder-rotherly. They had lived, had they not, like rother and sister all summer, playing Quidditch, teasing Ron, and having a laugh aout Bill and Phlegm? He had known Ginny for years now. ... It was natural that he should feel protective . . . natural that he should want to look out for her . . . want to rip Dean lim from lim for kissing her... No ... he would have to control that particular rotherly feeling. . . .
Ron gave a great grunting snore.
Shes Rons sister, Harry told himself firmly. Rons sister. Shes out-of-ounds. He would not risk his friendship with Ron for anything. He punched his pillow into a more comfortale shape and waited for sleep to come, trying his utmost not to allow his thoughts to stray anywhere near Ginny.
Harry awoke next morning feeling slightly dazed and confused y a series of dreams in which Ron had chased him with a Beater’s at, ut y midday he would have happily exchanged the dream Ron for the real one, who was not only cold-shouldering Ginny and Dean, ut also treating a hurt and ewildered Hermione with an icy, sneering indifference. What was more, Ron seemed to have ecome, overnight, as touchy and ready to lash out as the average Blast-Ended Skrewt. Harry spent the day attempting to keep the peace etween Ron and Hermione with no success; finally, Hermione departed for ed in high dudgeon, and Ron stalked off to the oys dormitory after swearing angrily at several frightened first years for looking at him.
To Harry’s dismay, Rons new aggression did not wear off over the next few days. Worse still, it coincided with an even deeper dip in his Keeping skills, which made him still more aggressive, so that during the final Quidditch practice efore Saturdays match, he failed to save every single goal the Chasers aimed at him, ut ellowed at everyody so much that he reduced Demelza Roins to tears.
"You shut up and leave her alone!" shouted Peakes, who was aout two-thirds Rons height, though admittedly carrying a heavy at.
"ENOUGH!" ellowed Harry, who had seen Ginny glowering in Ron’s direction and, rememering her reputation as an accom-plished caster of the Bat-Bogey Hex, soared over to intervene e-fore things got out of hand. "Peakes, go and pack up the Bludgers. Demelza, pull yourself together, you played really well today, Ron . . ." he waited until the rest of the team were out of earshot efore saying it, "youre my est mate, ut carry on treating the rest of them like this and Im going to kick you off the team."
He really thought for a moment that Ron might hit him, ut then something much worse happened: Ron seemed to sag on his room. all the fight went out of him and he said, "I resign. Im pathetic."
"Youre not pathetic and youre not resigning!" said Harry fiercely, seizing Ron y the front of his roes. "You can save any-thing when youre on form, its a mental prolem youve got!" "You calling me mental?" "Yeah, maye I am!"
They glared at each other for a moment, then Ron shook his head wearily. "I know you havent got any time to find another Keeper, so Ill play tomorrow, ut if we lose, and we will, Im tak-ing myself off the team."
Nothing Harry said made any difference. He tried oosting Rons confidence all through dinner, ut Ron was too usy eing grumpy and surly with Hermione to notice. Harry persisted in the common room that evening, ut his assertion that the whole team would e devastated if Ron left was somewhat undermined y the fact that the rest of the team was sitting in a huddle in a distant corner, clearly muttering aout Ron and casting him nasty looks. Finally Harry tried getting angry again in the hope of provoking Ron into a defiant, and hopefully goal-saving, attitude, ut this strategy did not appear to work any etter than encouragement; Ron went to ed as dejected and hopeless as ever.
Harry lay awake for a very long time in the darkness. He did not want to lose the upcoming match; not only was it his first as Cap-tain, ut he was determined to eat Draco Malfoy at Quidditch even if he could not yet prove his suspicions aout him. Yet if Ron played as he had done in the last few practices, their chances of winning were very slim. . . .
If only there was something he could do to make Ron pull him-self together . . . make him play at the top of his form . . . some-thing that would ensure that Ron had a really good day. . . .
And the answer came to Harry in one, sudden, glorious stroke of inspiration.
Breakfast was the usual excitale affair next morning; the Slytherins hissed and ooed loudly as every memer of the Gryffindor team entered the Great Hall. Harry glanced at the ceiling and saw a clear, pale lue sky: a good omen.
The Gryffindor tale, a solid mass of red and gold, cheered as Harry and Ron approached. Harry grinned and waved; Ron gri-maced weakly and shook his head.
"Cheer up, Ron!" called Lavender. "I know youll e rilliant!" : Ron ignored her.
"Tea?" Harry asked him. "Coffee? Pumpkin juice?" "Anything," said Ron glumly, taking a moody ite of toast.
A few minutes later Hermione, who had ecome so tired of Rons recent unpleasant ehavior that she had not come down to reakfast with them, paused on her way up the tale.
"How are you oth feeling?" she asked tentatively, her eyes on the ack of Rons head.
"Fine," said Harry, who was concentrating on handing Ron a glass of pumpkin juice. "There you go, Ron. Drink up."
Ron had just raised the glass to his lips when Hermione spoke
sharply.
"Dont drink that, Ron!"
Both Harry and Ron looked up at her.
"Why not?" said Ron.
Hermione was now staring at Harry as though she could not e-lieve her eyes.
"You just put something in that drink."
"Excuse me?" said Harry.
"You heard me. I saw you. You just tipped something into Rons drink. Youve got the ottle in your hand right now!"
"I dont know what youre talking aout," said Harry, stowing the little ottle hastily in his pocket.
"Ron, I warn you, dont drink it!" Hermione said again, alarmed, ut Ron picked up the glass, drained it in one gulp, and said, "Stop ossing me around, Hermione."
She looked scandalized. Bending low so that only Harry could hear her, she hissed, "You should e expelled for that. Id never have elieved it of you, Harry!"
"Look whos talking," he whispered ack. "Confunded anyone lately?"
She stormed up the tale away from them. Harry watched her go without regret. Hermione had never really understood what a serious usiness Quidditch was. He then looked around at Ron, who was smacking his lips.
"Nearly time/ said Harry lithely.
The frosty grass crunched underfoot as they strode down to the stadium.
"Pretty lucky the weathers this good, eh?" Harry asked Ron.
"Yeah," said Ron, who was pale and sick-looking.
Ginny and Demelza were already wearing their Quidditch roes and waiting in the changing room.
"Conditions look ideal," said Ginny, ignoring Ron. "And guess what? That Slytherin Chaser Vaisey -- he took a Bludger in the head yesterday during their practice, and hes too sore to play! And even etter than that -- Malfoys gone off sick too!"
"What?" said Harry, wheeling around to stare at her. "Hes ill? Whats wrong with him?"
"No idea, ut its great for us," said Ginny rightly. "Theyre playing Harper instead; hes in my year and hes an idiot."
Harry smiled ack vaguely, ut as he pulled on his scarlet roes his mind was far from Quidditch. Malfoy had once efore claimed he could not play due to injury, ut on that occasion he had made sure the whole match was rescheduled for a time that suited the Slytherins etter. Why was he now happy to let a sustitute go on? Was he really ill, or was he faking?
"Fishy, isnt it?" he said in an undertone to Ron. "Malfoy not playing?"
"Lucky, I call it," said Ron, looking slightly more animated. "And Vaisey off too, hes their est goal scorer, I didnt fancy -- hey!" he said suddenly, freezing halfway through pulling on his Keepers gloves and staring at Harry.
"What?"
"I... you . . ." Ron had dropped his voice, he looked oth scared and excited. "My drink ... my pumpkin juice ... you didnt...?"
Harry raised his eyerows, ut said nothing except, "Well e starting in aout five minutes, youd etter get your oots on."
They walked out onto the pitch to tumultuous roars and oos. One end of the stadium was solid red and gold; the other, a sea of green and silver. Many Hufflepuffs and Ravenclaws had taken sides too: Amidst all the yelling and clapping Harry could distinctly hear the roar of Luna Lovegoods famous lion-topped hat.
Harry stepped up to Madam Hooch, the referee, who was stand-ing ready to release the alls from the crate.
"Captains shake hands," she said, and Harry had his hand crushed y the new Slytherin Captain, Urquhart. "Mount your rooms. On the whistle . . . three . . . two . . . one . . ."
The whistle sounded, Harry and the others kicked off hard from the frozen ground, and they were away.
Harry soared around the perimeter of the grounds, looking around for the Snitch and keeping one eye on Harper, who was zigzagging far elow him. Then a voice that was jarringly different to the usual commentators started up.
"Well, there they go, and I think were all surprised to see the team that Potters put together this year. Many thought, given Ronald Weasleys patchy performance as Keeper last year, that he might e off the team, ut of course, a close personal friendship with the Captain does help. . . ."
These words were greeted with jeers and applause from the Slytherin end of the pitch. Harry craned around on his room to look toward the commentators podium. A call, skinny lond uy with an upturned nose was standing there, talking into the magical megaphone that had once een Lee Jordans; Harry recognized Zacharias Smith, a Hufflepuff player whom he heartily disliked.
"Oh, and here comes Slytherins first attempt on goal, its Urquhart streaking down the pitch and --"
Harrys stomach turned over.
"-- Weasley saves it, well, hes ound to get lucky sometimes, I suppose. . . ."
"Thats right, Smith, he is," muttered Harry, grinning to him-self, as he dived amongst the Chasers with his eyes searching all around for some hint of the elusive Snitch.
With half an hour of the game gone, Gryffindor were leading sixty points to zero, Ron having made some truly spectacular saves, some y the very tips of his gloves, and Ginny having scored four of Gryffindors six goals. This effectively stopped Zacharias won-dering loudly whether the two Weasleys were only there ecause Harry liked them, and he started on Peakes and Coote instead.
"Of course, Coote isnt really the usual uild for a Beater," said Zacharias loftily, "theyve generally got a it more muscle --"
"Hit a Bludger at him!" Harry called to Coote as he zoomed past, ut Coote, grinning roadly, chose to aim the next Bludger at Harper instead, who was just passing Harry in the opposite direc-tion. Harry was pleased to hear the dull thunk that meant the Bludger had found its mark.
It seemed as though Gryffindor could do no wrong. Again and again they scored, and again and again, at the other end of the pitch, Ron saved goals with apparent ease. He was actually smiling now, and when the crowd greeted a particularly good save with a
rousing chorus of the old favorite "Weasley Is Our King," he pre-tended to conduct them from on high.
"Thinks hes something special today, doesnt he?" said a snide voice, and Harry was nearly knocked off his room as Harper collided with him hard and delierately. "Your lood-traitor pal..." Madam Hoochs ack was turned, and though Gryffindors e-low shouted in anger, y the time she looked around, Harper had already sped off. His shoulder aching, Harry raced after him, de-termined to ram him ack. ...
"And I think Harper of Slytherins seen the Snitch!" said Zacharias Smith through his megaphone. "Yes, hes certainly seen something Potter hasnt!"
Smith really was an idiot, thought Harry, hadnt he noticed them collide? But next moment, his stomach seemed to drop out of the , sky -- Smith was right and Harry was wrong: Harper had not sped upward at random; he had spotted what Harry had not: The Snitch was speeding along high aove them, glinting rightly against the clear lue sky.
Harry accelerated; the wind was whistling in his ears so that it drowned all sound of Smiths commentary or the crowd, ut Harper was still ahead of him, and Gryffindor was only a hundred points up; if Harper got there first Gryffindor had lost. . . and now Harper was feet from it, his hand outstretched. ...
"Oi, Harper!" yelled Harry in desperation. "How much did Malfoy pay you to come on instead of him?"
He did not know what made him say it, ut Harper did a dou-le-take; he fumled the Snitch, let it slip through his fingers, and shot right past it. Harry made a great swipe for the tiny, fluttering all and caught it.
"YES!" Hairy yelled. Wheeling around, he hurtled ack toward the ground, the Snitch held high in his hand. As the crowd realized what had happened, a great shout went up that almost drowned the sound of the whistle that signaled the end of the game.
"Ginny, wherere you going?" yelled Harry, who had found hint self trapped in the midst of a mass midair hug with the rest of tin1 team, ut Ginny sped right on past them until, with an almighty crash, she collided
with the commentators podium. As the crowd shrieked and laughed, the Gryffindor team landed eside the wreckage of wood under which Zacharias was feely stirring,: Harry heard Ginny saying lithely to an irate Professor McGonagall, "Forgot to rake, Professor, sorry."
Laughing, Harry roke free of the rest of the team and hugged Ginny, ut let go very quickly. Avoiding her gaze, he clapped cheering Ron on the ack instead as, all enmity forgotten, the Gryffindor team left the pitch arm in arm, punching the air ami waving to their supporters.
The atmosphere in the changing room was juilant. "Party up in the common room, Seamus said!" yelled Dean exuerantly. "Cmon, Ginny, Demelza!"
Ron and Harry were the last two in the changing room. They were just aout to leave when Hermione entered. She was twisting her Gryffindor scarf in her hands and looked upset ut determined. "I want a word with you, Harry." She took a deep reath. "Yon shouldnt have done it. You heard Slughorn, its illegal." "What are you going to do, turn us in?" demanded Ron. "What are you two talking aout?" asked Harry, turning away to hang up his roes so that neither of them would see him grinning, "You know perfectly well what were talking aout!" said Hermione shrilly. "You spiked Rons juice with lucky potion at reakfast! Ielix Felicis!"
"No, I didnt," said Harry, turning ack to face them oth.
"Yes you did, Harry, and thats why everything went right, there were Slytherin players missing and Ron saved everything!"
"I didnt put it in!" said Harry, grinning roadly. He slipped his hand inside his jacket pocket and drew out the tiny ottle that Hermione had seen in his hand that morning. It was full of golden potion and the cork was still tightly sealed with wax. "I wanted Ron to think Id done it, so I faked it when I knew you were look-ing." He looked at Ron. "You saved everything ecause you felt lucky. You did it all yourself."
He pocketed the potion again.
"There really wasnt anything in my pumpkin juice?" Ron said, astounded. "But the weathers good. . . and Vaisey couldnt play. ... I honestly havent een given lucky potion?" ]
Harry shook his head. Ron gaped at him for a moment, then rounded on Hermione, imitating her voice. "You added Felix Felicis to Ron’s juice this morning, thats why he saved everything! See! I can save goals without help, Hermione!"
"I never said you couldnt -- Ron, you thought youd een given it too!"
But Ron had already strode past her out of the door with his roomstick over his shoulder.
"Er," said Harry into the sudden silence; he had not expected his plan to ackfire like this, "shall. . . shall we go up to the party, then?"
"You go!" said Hermione, linking ack tears. "Im sick of Ron at the moment, I dont know what Im supposed to have done. . . ."
And she stormed out of the changing room too.
Harry walked slowly ack up the grounds toward the castle through the crowd, many of whom shouted congratulations at him, ut he felt a great sense of letdown; he had een sure that if Ron won the match, he and Hermione would e friends again immediately. He did not see how he could possily explain to Hermi-one that what she had done to offend Ron was kiss Viktor Krum, not when the offense had occurred so long ago.
Harry could not see Hermione at the Gryffindor celeration party, which was in full swing when he arrived. Renewed cheers and clapping greeted his appearance, and he was soon surrounded y a mo of people congratulating him. What with trying to shake off the Creevey rothers, who wanted a low-y-low match analysis, and the large group of girls that encircled him, laughing at his least amusing comments and atting their eyelids, it was some time efore he could try and find Ron. At last, he extricated him-self from Romilda Vane, who was hinting heavily that she would like to go to Slughorns Christmas party with him. As he was duck-ing toward the drinks tale, he walked straight into Ginny, Arnold the Pygmy Puff riding on her shoulder and Crookshanks mewing hopefully at her heels.
"Looking for Ron?" she asked, smirking. "Hes over there, the filthy hypocrite."
Harry looked into the corner she was indicating. There, in full view of the whole room, stood Ron wrapped so closely around Lavender Brown it was hard to tell whose hands were whose.
"It looks like hes eating her face, doesnt it?" said Ginny dispas-sionately. "But I suppose hes got to refine his technique somehow. Good game, Harry."
She patted him on the arm; Harry felt a swooping sensation in his stomach, ut then she walked off to help herself to more uttereer. Crookshanks trotted after her, his yellow eyes fixed upon Arnold.
Harry turned away from Ron, who did not look like he would e surfacing soon, just as the portrait hole was closing. With a sinking feeling, he thought he saw a mane of ushy rown hair whip-ping out of sight.
He darted forward, sidestepped Romilda Vane again, and pushed open the portrait of the Fat Lady. The corridor outside , seemed to e deserted.
"Hermione?"
He found her in the first unlocked classroom he tried. She was sitting on the teachers desk, alone except for a small ring of twit-tering yellow irds
circling her head, which she had clearly just conjured out of midair. Harry could not help admiring her spell-work at a time like this.
"Oh, hello, Harry," she said in a rittle voice. "I was just practicing."
"Yeah . . . theyre -- er -- really good. ..." said Harry.
He had no idea what to say to her. He was just wondering whether there was any chance that she had not noticed Ron, that she had merely left the room ecause the party was a little too rowdy, when she said, in an unnaturally high-pitched voice, "Ron seems to e enjoying the celerations."
"Er . . . does he?" said Harry.
"Dont pretend you didnt see him," said Hermione. "He wasnt exactly hiding it, was -- ?"
The door ehind them urst open. To Harrys horror, Ron came in, laughing, pulling Lavender y the hand. ; 
"Oh," he said, drawing up short at the sight of Harry and Hermione.
"Oops!" said Lavender, and she acked out of the room, gig-gling. The door swung shut ehind her.
There was a horrile, swelling, illowing silence. Hermione was staring at Ron, who refused to look at her, ut said with an odd mixture of ravado and awkwardness, "Hi, Harry! Wondered where youd got to!"
Hermione slid off the desk. The little flock of golden irds con-tinued to twitter in circles around her head so that she looked like a strange, feathery model of the solar system.
"You shouldnt leave Lavender waiting outside," she said quietly. "Shell wonder where youve gone."
She walked very slowly and erectly toward the door. Harry glanced at Ron, who was looking relieved that nothing worse had happened.
"Oppugno!" came a shriek from the doorway.
Harry spun around to see Hermione pointing her wand at Ron, her expression wild: The little flock of irds was speeding like a hail of fat golden ullets toward Ron, who yelped and covered his face with his hands, ut the irds attacked, pecking and clawing at every it of flesh they could reach.
"Gerremoffme!" he yelled, ut with one last look of vindictive fury, Hermione wrenched open the door and disappeared through it. Harry thought he heard a so efore it slammed.
Chapter 15: The Unreakale Vow
Snow was swirling against the icy windows once more; Christmas was approaching fast. Hagrid had already singlehandedly delivered the usual twelve C hristmas trees to the Great Hall; garlands of holly and tinsel had een twisted around the anisters of the stairs; everlasting candles glowed from inside the helmets of suits of armor and great unches of mistletoe had een hung at intervals along the corridors. Large groups of girls tended to converge underneath the mistletoe unches every time Harry went past, which caused lockages in the corridors; fortunat e ly, however, Harrys frequent nighttime wanderings had given him an unusually good knowledge of the castles secret passageways, so that he was often, without too much difficulty, to naviga t e mistletoe-free routes etween classes.
Ron, who might once have found the necessity of these detours excuse for jealousy rather than hilarity, simply roared with laughter aout it all. Although Harry much preferred this new laughing, joking Ron to the moody, aggressive model he had een enduring for the last few weeks, the improved Ron came at a heavy price. Firstly, Harry had to put up with the frequent presence of Lavender Brown, who seemed to regard any moment that she was not kissing Ron as a moment wasted; and secondly, Harry found himself once more the est friend of two people who seemed unlikely ever to speak to each other again.
Ron, whose hands and forearms still ore scratches and cuts from Hermiones ird attack, was taking a defensive and resentful tone.
"She cant complain," he told Harry. "She snogged Krum. So shes found out someone wants to snog me too. Well, its a free country. I havent done anything wrong."
Harry did not answer, ut pretended to e asored in the ook they were supposed to have read efore Charms next morning (Quintessence: A Q uest). Determined as he was to remain friends with oth Ron and Hermione, he was spending a lot of time with his mouth shut tight.
"I never promised Hermione anything , " Ron mumled. "I mean, all right, I was going to go to Slughorns Christmas party with her, ut she never said... just as friends... Im a free agent..."
Harry turned a page of Quintessence, aware that Ron was watching him. Rons voice trailed away in mutters, arely audile over the loud crackling of the fire, though Harry thought he caught the words "Krum" and "Cant complain" again.
Hermiones schedule was so full that Harry could only talk to her properly in the evenings, when Ron was, in any case, so tightly wrapped around Lavender that he did not notice what Harry was doing. Hermione refused to sit in the common room while Ron was there, So Harry generally joined her in the lirary, which meant that their conversations were held in whispers.
"Hes at perfect lierty to kiss whomever he likes," said Hermione, while the lirarian , Madam Pince, prowled the shelves ehind them. "I really couldnt care less."
She raised her quill and dotted an i so ferociously that she punctured a hole in her parchment. Harry said nothing. He thought his voice might soon vanish from the lack of use. He ent a little lower over Advanced Potion-Making and continued to make notes on Everlasting Elixirs, occasionally pausing to decipher the p rinces useful additions to Liatius B orages text.
"And incidentally," said Hermione, after a few moments, "you need to e careful."
"For the last time," said Harry, speaking in a slightly hoarse tone after three-quarters of an ho u r of silence, "I am not giving ack this ook . Ive learned more from the Half-lood p rince than Snape or Slughorn have taught me in--"
"Im not talking aout your stupid so-called prince," said Hermione , giving his ook a nasty look as though it had een rude to her. "Im talki ng aout earlier. I went into the girls athroom just efore I came in here and there were aout a dozen girls in there, including that Romilda Vane , trying to decide how to slip you a love potion. Theyre all hoping theyre going to get you to take them to Slughorns party, and thay all seem to have ought Fred and Georges love potions, which Im afraid to say proaly work --"
"Why didnt you confiscate them then?" demanded Harry, it seemed extraordinary that Hermiones m ania for upholding the rules could have aandoned her at this crucial juncture.
"They didnt have the potions with them in the athroom," said Hermione scornfully, "They were just discussing tactics. As I dout the Half-lood prince" she gave the ook another scornful look "could dream up an antidote for a dozen different love potions at once, Id just invite someone to go with you, thatll stop all the others thinking theyve still got a chance. Its tomor r ow night, theyre getting desperate."
"There isnt anyone I want to invite," mumled Harry, who was still not trying to think aout Ginny any more than he could help, despite the fact the fact that she kept cropping up in his dreams in ways that made him devoutly thankful that Ron could not perform Legilimency.
"Well, just e careful what you drink, ecause Romilda Va ne looked like she meant usiness." said Hermione grimly.
She hitched up the long roll of parchment on which she was writing her Arithma n cy essay and continued to scratch away with her quill. Harry wa t che d her with his mind a long way away.
"Hang on a moment," he said slowly. "I thought Filch had anned anything ought at Weasleys Wizard Wheezes?"
"And when has anyone ever paid attention to what Filch has anned?" asked Hermione, still concentrating on her essay.
"But I thought all the owls were eing searched. So how come these grils are ale to ring love potions into the school?"
"Fred and George send them disguised as perfumes and cough potions," said Hermione. "Its part of their Owl order service."
"You know a lot aout it."
Hermione gave him the kind of nasty look she had just given his copy of Advanced Potion-Making.
"It was all on the ack of the ottles they showed Ginny and me in the summer," she said coldly, "I dont go around putting potions in peoples drinks... or pretending too eit h er, which is just as ad..."
"Yeah, well, never mind that," said Harry quickly. "The point is, Filch is eing fooled isnt he? These girls are getting stuff into the school disguised as something else! So why couldnt Malfoy have rought the necklace into the school --?"
"Oh, Harry... not that again..."
"Come on, why not?" demanded Harry.
"Look , " sighed Hermione, "Secrecy Sensors detect jinxes, curses, and concealment charms, dont they? Theyre used to find d ark magic and d ark oje c ts. Theyd have picked up a powerful curse , like the one in the necklace, withi n seconds. But something thats just een put in the wrong ottle wouldn  t register -- anyway Love potions arent d ark or dangerous -"
"Easy for you to say," muttered Harry, thinking of Romilda Vane.
"-- so it would e down to Filch to realise it wasnt a cough potion, and hes not a very good wizard, I dout he can tell one potion from --"
Hermione stopped dead; Harry had heard it too. Someody had moved close ehind them among the dark ookshelves. They waited, and a moment later the vulturelike countenance of Madam Pince appeared around the corner, her sunken cheeks, her skin like parchment, and her long hooked nose illuminated unflatteringly y the lamp she was carrying.
"The lirary is now closed," she said, "Mind you return anything you have orrowed to the correct -- what have you een doing to that ook, you depraved oy?"
"It isnt the lirarys, its mine!" said Harry hastily, snatching his copy of Advanced Potion-Making off the tale as she lunged at it with a clawlike hand.
" Spoiled!" she hissed . "Desecrated, efouled !"
"Its just a ook thats een written on!" said Harry, tugging it out of her grip.
She looked as though she might have a seizure; Hermione, who had hastily packed her things, graed Harry y the arm and frogmarched him away.
"Shell an you from the lirary if youre not careful. Why did you have to ring that stupid ook?"
"Its not my fault shes arking mad, Hermione. Or dyou think she overheard you eing rude aout Filch? Ive always thought there might e something etween them..."
"Oh, ha ha.."
Enjoying the fact that they could speak normally again, they made their way along the deserted lamp-lit corridors ack to the common room, arguing w hether or not Filch and Madam Pince were secretly in love with each other.
"Baules" said Harry to the Fat Lady, this eing the new, festive password.
"Same to you," said the fat lady with a roguish grin, and she swung forward to admit them.
"Hi, Harry!" said Romilda Vane, the moment he had climed through the portrait hole. "Fancy a gillywater?"
Hermione gave him a "what-did-I-tell-you?" look over her shoulder.
"No thanks," said Harry quickly. "I dont like it much."
"Well, take these anyway," said Romilda, thrusting a ox into his hands. "Chocolate Cauldrons, theyve got firewhiskey in them. My gran sent them to me, ut I dont like them."
"Oh-- right -- thanks a lot." said Harry, who could not think what else to say. " Er-- I  m just going over here with ..."
He hurried off ehind Hermione, his voice tailing away feely.
"Told you," said Hermione succinctly, " Sooner you ask someone, sooner theyll all leave you alone and you can --"
But her face suddnly turned lank; she had just spotted Ron and Lavender, who were i ntertwined in the same armchair.
"Well, good night, Harry" said Hermione, though it was only seven oclock in the evening, and she left for the girl s dormitory without another word.
Harry went to ed comforting himself that there was only one more day of lessons to struggle through, plus Slughorns party, after which he and Ron would depart together for the B urrow. It now seemed impossile that Ron and Hermione would make up with each other efore the holidays egan, ut
perhaps, somehow, the reak would give them time to calm down, think etter of their ehavior...
But his hopes were not high, and they sank still lower after enduring a Transfiguration lesson with them oth next day. They had just emarked upon the immensely difficult topic of human transfiguration; working in front of mirrors , they were suposed to e changing the color of their own eyerows. Hermione laughed unkindly at Rons disastrous first attempt, during which he somehow managed to give himself a spectacular handlear mustache; Ron retaliated y doing a cruel ut accurate impression of Hermione jumping up and down in her seat every time Profe s sor McGonagall asked a question, which Lavender and Parvati found deeply amusing and which reduced Hermione to the verge of tears again. She raced out of the classroom on the ell, leaving half her things ehind; Harry, deciding that her need was greater than Rons just now, scooped up her remaining po ssessions and followed her.
He finally tracked her down as she emerged from a girls athroom on the floor elow. She was accompanied y Luna Lovegood, who was patting her vaguely on the ack.
"Oh, hello, Harry , " said Luna . " D id you know one of your eyerows is right yellow?"
"Hi, Luna. Hermione , you left your stuff..."
He held out her ooks.
"Oh, yes," said Hermione in a choked voice, taking her things and turning away quickly to hide the fact she was wiping her eyes with her pencil case. "Thank you , Harry. Well, Id etter get going..."
And she hurried off, without ever giving Harry any time to offer words of comfort, though admittedly he could not think of any.
"Shes a it upset , " said Luna. "I thought at first it was Moaning Myrtle in there, ut it turned out to e Hermione. She said something aout Ron Weasley..."
"Yeah, theyve had a row," said Harry.
"He says funny things sometimes, doesnt he?" said Luna as they set off down the corridor together. "But he can e a it unkind. I noticed that last year."
" I spose , " said Harry. Luna was demonstrating her usual knack of speaking uncomfortale truths; he had never met anyone quite like her. "So have you had a good term?"
"Oh, its een al l right," said Luna. " A it lonely without the D.A. Ginnys een nice, though. She stopped two oys in our Transfiguration class calling me Loony the other day --"
"How would you like to come to S lughorns party with me tonight?"
The words were out of Harrys mouth efore he could stop them; he heard himself say them as though it were a stranger speaking.
Luna turned her protuerant eyes to him in surprise.
"Slughorns party? With you?"
"Yeah," said Harry, "Were supposed to ring guests, so I thought you might like.. I mean..." He was keen to make his intentions perfectly clear. " I mean, just as friends, you know. But if you dont want to..."
He was already half hoping that she didnt want to.
"O h no, Id love to go with you as friends!" said Luna, eaming as he had never seen her eam efore. "Noodys ever asked me to a party efore, as a friend! Is that why you dyed your eyerow, for the party? Should I dye mine too?"
"No" said Harry firmly, "That was a mistake. Ill get Hermione to put it right for me. So Ill meet you in the entrance hall at eight oclock then . "
"AHA!" screamed a voice from overhead and oth of them jumped; unnoticed y either of them, they had just passed underneath Peeves, who was hanging upside down from a chandelier and grinning maliciously at them.
"Potty asked Loony to go to the part y ! Potty lurves Loony! Potty luuuuuurves Looooony!"
And he zoomed away cackling and shrieking, "Potty loves Loony!"
"Nice to keep these things private," said Harry. And sure enough, in no time at all the whole school seemed to know that Harry Potter was taking Luna Lovegood to Slughorns party.
"You couldve taken anyone!" said Ron in diselief over dinner. "Anyone! And you chose Loony Lovegood?"
"Dont call her that, Ron!" snapped Ginny, pausing ehind Harry on her way to join friends. "Im really glad youre taking her Harry, shes so excited."
And she moved on down the tale to sit with Dean. Harry tried to feel pleased that Ginny was glad he was taking Luna to the party ut could not quite manage it. A long way along the tale Hermione was sitting alone, playing with her stew. Harry noticed Ron looking at her furtively.
"You could say sorry , " suggested Harry luntly.
"What , and get attacked y another flock of canaries?" muttered Ron.
"What did you have to imitate her for?"
"She laughed at my mustache!"
"So did I, it was the stupidest thing Ive ever seen."
But Ron did not seem to have he a rd; Lavender had just arrived with Parvati. Squeezing herself in etween Harry and Ron, Lavender flung her arms around Rons neck.
"Hi, Harry," said Parvati who, like Harry, looked faintly emarrassed and ored y the ehavior of their two friends.
"Hi," said Harry, "Howre you? Youre staying at Hogwarts, then? I heard your parents wanted you to leave."
"I managed to talk them out o f it for the time eing," said Parvati. "That Katie thing really freaked them out, ut as there hasnt een anything since... Oh, hi, Hermione!"
Parvati positively eamed. Harry could tell that she was feeling guilty for having laughed at Hermione in Transfiguration. He looked around and saw that Hermione was eaming ack, if possile even more rightly. Girls were very strange sometimes.
"Hi, Parvati!" said Hermione, ignoring Ron and Lavender completely. "Are you going to Slughorns party tonight?"
"No invite," said Parvati gloomily. "Id love to go, though, it sounds like its going to e really good... Youre going, arent you?"
"Yes, Im meeting Cormac at eight, and were -"
There was a noise like a plunger eing withdrawn from a locked sink , and Ron surfaced. Hermione acted as though she had not seen or heard anything.
"- were going up to the party together."
"Cormac?" said Parvati. "Cormac McLaggen, you mean?"
"Thats right," said Hermione sweetly. "The one who *almost*" - she put a great deal of emphasis on the word - "ec a me Gryffindor Keeper."
"Are you going out with him, then?" asked Parvati, wide-eyed.
"Oh - yes - didnt you know?" said Harmione, with a most un-Hermione-ish giggle.
"No!" said Parvati, looking positively agog at thi s piece of gossip. "Wow , you like your Quidditch players, dont you? First Krum, then McLaggen."
"I like *really good* Quidditch players," Hermione corrected her, still smiling. "Well, see you... Got to go and get ready for the party..."
She left. At once Lavender and Parvati put their heads together to discuss this new development, with everything they had ever heard aout McLaggen, and all they had ever guessed aout Hermione. Ron looked strangely lank and said nothing. Harry was left to ponder in silence the depths to which girls would sink to get revenge.
When he arrived in the entrance hall at eight oclock that night, he found an unusually large numer of girls lurking there, all of whom seemed to e staring at him resentfully as he approached Luna. She was wearing a set of spangled silver roes that were attracting a certain amount of giggles from the onlookers, ut otherwise she looked quite nice. Harry was glad, in any case, that she had left off her radish earrings, her uttereer cork necklace, and her Spectrespecs.
"Hi," he said. "Shall we get going then?"
"Oh yes," she said happily. "Where is the party?"
"Slughorns office," said Harry, leading her up the marle staircase away from all the staring and muttering. "Did you hear, theres supposed to e a vampire coming?"
"Rufus Scrimgeour?" asked Luna.
"I - what?" said Harry, disconcerted. "You mean the Minister of Magic?"
"Yes, hes a vampire," said Luna matter-of-factly. "Father wrote a very long article aout it when Scrimgeour first took over from Cornelius Fudge, ut he was forced not to pulish y someody from the Ministry. Oviously, they didnt want the truth to get out!"
Harry, who thought it most unlikely that Rufus Scrimgeour was a vampire, ut who was used to Luna repeating her fathers izarre views as though they were fact, did not reply; they were already approaching Slughorns office and the sounds of laughter, music, and loud conversation were growing louder with every step they took.
Whether it had een uilt that way, or ecause he had used magical trickery to make it so, Slughorns office was much larger than the usual teachers study. The ceiling and walls had een draped with emerald, crimson , and gold hangings, so that it looked as though they were all inside a vast tent. The room was crowded and stuffy and athed in the red light cast y an ornate golden lamp dangling from the center of the ceiling in which real fairies were fluttering, each a rilliant speck of light. Loud singing accompanied y what sounded like mandolins issued from a distant corner; a haze of pipe smoke hung over several elderly warlocks deep in conversation, and a numer of house-elves were negotiating their way squeakily through the forest of knees, oscured y the heavy silver platters of food they were earing, so that they looked like little roving tales.
"Harry, moy!" oomed Slughorn, almost as soon as Harry and Luna had squeezed in through the door. "Come in, come in, so many people Id like you to meet!"
Slughorn was wearing a tasseled velvet hat to match his smoking jacket. Gripping Harrys arm so tightly he might have een hoping to Disapparate with him, Slughorn led him purposefully into the party; Harry seized Lunas hand and dragged her along with him.
"Harry, Id like you to meet Eldred Worple, an old student of mine, author of  Blood Brothers: My L ife Amongst the Vampires - and, of course, his friend Sanguini."
Worple, who was a small, stout, espectacled man, graed Harrys hand and shook it enthusiastically; the vampire Sanguini, who was tall and emaciated with dark shadows under his eyes, merely nodded. He looked rather ored. A gaggle of girls was standing close to him, looking curious and excited.
"Harry Potter, I am simply delighted!" said Worple, peering shortsightedly up into Harrys face. "I was saying to Professor Slughorn only the other day, Where is the iography of Harry Potter for which we have all een waiting?"
"Er," said Harry, "were you?"
"Just as modest as Horace descried!" said Worple. "But seri-ously" -- his manner changed; it ecame suddenly usinesslike -- "I would e delighted to write it myself-- people are craving to know more aout you, dear oy, craving! If you were prepared to grant me a few interviews, say in
four- or five-hour sessions, why, we could have the ook finished within months. And all with very little effort on your part, I assure you -- ask Sanguini here if it isnt quite -- Sanguini, stay here!" added Worple, suddenly stern, for the vampire had een edging toward the neary group of girls, a rather hungry look in his eye. "Here, have a pasty," said Worple, seizing one from a passing elf and stuffing it into Sanguinis hand efore turning his attention ack to Harry. "My dear oy, the gold you could make, you have no idea --"
"Im definitely not interested," said Harry firmly, "and Ive just seen a friend of mine, sorry." He pulled Luna after him into the crowd; he had indeed just seen a long mane of rown hair disappear etween what looked like two memers of the Weird Sisters.
"Hermione! Hermione !"
"Harry! There you are, thank goodness! Hi, Luna !"
"Whats happened to you?" asked Harry, for Hermione looked distinctly disheveled, rather as though she had just fought her way out of a thicket of Devils Snare.
"Oh, Ive just escaped -- I mean, Ive just left Cormac," she said. "Under the mistletoe," she added in explanation, as Harry continued to look questioningly at her.
"Serves you right for coming with him," he told her severely. "I thought hed annoy Ron most," said Hermione dispassion-ately. "I deated for a while aout Zacharias Smith, ut I thought, on the whole --"
"You considered Smith?" said Harry, revoked.
"Yes, I did, and Im starting to wish Id chosen him, McLaggen makes Grawp look a gentleman. Lets go this way, well e ale to see him coming, hes so tall. . . ." The three of them made their way over to the other side of the room, scooping up golets of mead on the way, realizing too late that Professor Trelawney was standing there alone.
"Hello," said Luna politely to Professor Trelawney.
"Good evening, my dear," said Professor Trelawney, focusing upon Luna with some difficulty. Harry could smell cooking sherry again. "I havent seen you in my classes lately. .."
"No, Ive got Firenze this year," said Luna.
"Oh, of course," said Professor Trelawney with an angry, drunken titter. "Or Doin, as I prefer to think of him. You would have thought, would you not, that now I am returned to the school Professor Dumledore might have got rid of the horse? But no ... we share classes. . . . Its an insult, frankly, an
insult. Do you know. . ." Professor Trelawney seemed too tipsy to have recognized Harry.
Under cover of her furious criticisms of Firenze, Harry drew closer to Hermione and said, "Let  s get something straight. Are you planning to tell Ron that you interfered at Keeper tryouts?"
Hermione raised her eyerows. "Do you really think Id stoop that low?"
Harry looked at her shrewdly. "Hermione, if you can ask 0111 McLaggen --"
"Theres a difference," said Hermione with dignity. "Ive got no plans to tell Ron anything aout what might, or might not, have happened at Keeper tryouts."
"Good," said Harry fervently. "Because hell just fall apart again, and well lose the next match --"
"Quidditch!" said Hermione angrily. "Is that all oys care aout? Cormac hasnt asked me one single question aout myself, no, Ive just een treated to A Hundred Great Saves Made y Cormac McLaggen nonstop ever since -- oh no, here he comes!" She moved so fast it was as though she had Disapparated; one moment she was there, the next, she had squeezed etween two guffawing witches and vanished.
"Seen Hermione?" asked McLaggen, forcing his way through the throng a minute later.
"No, sorry," said Harry, and he turned quickly to join in Lunas conversation, forgetting for a split second to whom she was talking.
"Harry Potter!" said Professor Trelawney in deep, virant tones, noticing him for the first time.
"Oh, hello," said Harry unenthusiastically.
"My dear oy!" she said in a very carrying whisper. "The rumors! The stories! The Chosen One! Of course, I have known for a very long time. . . . The omens were never good, Harry. . . But why have you not returned to Divination? For you, of all people, the suject is of the utmost importance!"
"Ah, Syi l l, we all think our sujects most important!" said a loud voice, and Slughorn appeared at Professor Trelawney s other side, his face very red, his velvet hat a little askew, a glass of mead in one hand and an enormous mince pie in the other. "But I dont t hink Ive ever known such a natural at Potions!" said Slughorn, re-garding Harry with a fond, if loodshot, eye. "Instinctive, you know -- like his mother! Ive only ever taught a few with this kind of aility, I can tell you that, Syi l l -- why even Severus --" And to Harrys horror, Slughorn threw out an arm and seemed to scoop Snape out of thin air toward them. "Stop skulking and come and
join us, Severus!" hiccuped Slughorn happily. "I was just talking aout Harrys exceptional po-tion-making! Some credit must go to you, of course, you taught him for five years!"
Trapped, with Slughorns arm around his shoulders, Snape looked down his hooked nose at Harry, his lack eyes narrowed. "Funny, I never had the impression that I managed to teach Potter anything at all."
"Well, then, its natural aility!" shouted Slughorn. "You should have seen what he gave me, first lesson, Draught of Living Death -- never had a student produce finer on a first attempt, I dont think even you, Severus --"
"Really?" said Snape quietly, his eyes still oring into Harry, who felt a certain disquiet. The last thing he wanted was for Snape to start investigating the source of his newfound rilliance at Potions.
"Remind me what other sujects youre taking, Harry?" asked Slughorn .
"Defense Against the D ark Arts, Charms, Transfiguration , Herology..."
"All the sujects required, in short, for an Auror ," said Snap e with the faintest sneer.
"Yeah, well, thats what Id like to do," said Harry defiantly.
"And a great one youll make too!" oomed Slughorn.
"I dont think you should e an Auror, Harry," said Luna unex pectedly. Everyody looked at her. "The Aurors are part of the Rotfang Conspiracy, I thought everyone knew that. Theyre planning to ring down the Ministry of Magic from within using a c om ination of Dark Magic and gum disease."
Harry inhaled half his mead up his nose as he started to lau gh. Really, it had een worth ringing Luna just for this. Emerging, from his golet, coughing, sopping wet ut still grinning, he saw something calculated to raise his spirits even higher: Draco Malf o y eing dragged y the ear toward them y Argus Filch.
"Professor Slughorn," wheezed Filch, his jowls aquiver and the maniacal light of mischief-detection in his ulging eyes, "I discovered this oy lurking in an upstairs corridor. He claims to have een invited to your party and to have een delayed in setting out. Did you issue him with an invitation?"
Malfoy pulled himself free of Filchs grip, looking furious. "All right, I wasnt invited!" he said angrily. "I was trying to gate crash, happy?"
"No, Im not!" said Filch, a statement at complete odds with the glee on his face. "Youre in troule, you are! Didnt the headma ster say that nighttime prowling  s out, unless youve got permission, didnt he, eh?"
"Thats all right, Argus, thats all right," said Slughorn, waving it 1.1 nd. "Its Christmas, and its not a crime to want to come to a party . Just this once, well forget any punishment; you may stay , Draco.
Fil ichs expression of outraged disappointment was perfectly pre di c t ale; ut why, Harry wondered, watching him, did Malfoy look almost equally unhappy? And why was Snape looking at Mal-foy as though oth angry and . . . was it p ossile? ... a lit tl afraid? But almost efore Harry had registered what he had seen, Filch had turned and shuffled away, muttering under his reath; Malfoy h ad composed his face into a smile and was thanking Slughorn for his generosity, and Snapes face was smoothly inscrutale again.
"Its nothing, nothing," said Slughorn, waving away Malfoys t hanks. "I did know your grandfather, after all...."
"He always spoke very highly of you, sir," said Malfoy quickly. "Said you were the est potion-maker hed ever known. ..."
Harry stared at Malfoy. It was not the sucking-up that intrigued him; he had watched Malfoy do that to Snape for a long time. It was the fact that Malfoy did, after all, look a little ill. This was the first time he had seen Malfoy close up for ages; he now saw that Malfoy had dark shadows under his eyes and a distinctly grayish tinge to his skin.
"Id like a word with you, Draco," said Snape suddenly.
"Now , Severus," said Slughorn, hiccuping again, "its Christ mas, do nt e too hard --"
"I am his Head of House, and I shall decide how hard, or other-wise, to e," said Snape curtly. "Follow me, Draco."
They left, Snape leading the way, Malfoy looking resentful. Harry stood there for a moment, irresolute, then said, "Ill e ack in a it, Luna -- er -- athroom."
"All right," she said cheerfully, and he thought he heard her, as he hurried off into the crowd, resume the suject of the Rotfang Conspiracy with Professor Trelawney, who seemed sincerely in terested. It was easy, once out of the party, to pull his Invisiility Cloak out of his pocket and throw it over himself, for the corridor was quite deserted. What was more difficult was finding Snape and Malfoy. Harry ran down the corridor, the noise of his feet masked y the music and loud talk still issuing from Slughorns office ehind him. Perhaps Snape had taken Malfoy to his office in the dungeons ... or perhaps he was escorting him ack to the Slyt herin common room. . . . Harry pressed his ear against door after door as he dashed down the corridor until, with a great jolt of excitement, he crouched down to the keyhole of the last classroom in the corridor and heard voices.
" . . . cannot afford mistakes, Draco, ecause if you are expelled --"
"I didnt have anything to do with it, all right?"
"I hope you are telling the truth, ecause it was oth clumsy a nd foolish. Already you are suspected of having a hand in it."
"Who suspects me?" said Malfoy angrily. "For the last time, I didnt do it, okay? That Bell girl must  ve had an enemy no on e knows aout -- dont look at me like that! I know what youre do-ing, Im not stupid, ut it wont work -- I can stop you!"
There was a pause and then Snape said quietly, "Ah . . . Aunt Bellatrix has een teaching you Occlumency, I see. What thoughts are you trying to conceal from your master, Draco?"
"Im not trying to conceal anything from him, I just dont want you utting in !" Harry pressed his ear still more closely against the keyhole. . . . What had happened to make Malfoy speak to Snape like this -- Snape, toward whom he had always shown respect, even liking?
"So that is why you have een avoiding me this term? You have feared my interference? You realize that, had anyody else failed to come to my office when I had told them repeatedly to e there, Draco --"
"So put me in detention! Report me to Dumledore!" jeered Malfoy.
There was another pause. Then Snape said, "You know perfectly well that I do not wish to do either of those things ."
"Youd etter stop telling me to come to your office then!"
"Listen to me," said Snape, his voice so low now that Harry had to push his ear very hard against the keyhole to hear. "I am trying to help you. I swore to your mother I would protect you. I made the Unreakale Vow, Draco --"
"Looks like youll have to reak it, then, ecause I dont need your protection! Its my jo, he gave it to me and Im doing it, Ive got a plan and its going to work, its just taking a it longer than I thought it would!"
"What is your plan ?"
"Its none of your usiness !"
" If you tell me what you are trying to do, I can assist you ..."
"I have all the assistance I need, thanks, Im not alone!"
"You were certainly alone tonight, which was foolish in the ex-treme, wandering the corridors without lookouts or ackup, these are elementary mistakes --"
"I wouldve had Crae and Goyle with me if you hadnt put them in detention!"
"Keep your voice down!" spat Snape, for Malfoy  s voice had risen excitedly. "If your friends Crae and Goyle intend to pass their Defense Against the Dark Arts OWL this time around, they will need to work a little harder than they are doing at pres --"
"What does it matter?" said Malfoy. "Defense Against the Dark Arts -- its all just a joke, isnt it, an act? Like any of us need pro-tecting against the Dark Arts --"
"It is an act that is crucial to success, Draco!" said Snape. "Where do you think I would have een all these years, if I had not known how to act? Now listen to me! You are eing incautious, wandering around at night, getting yourself caught, and if you are placing your reliance in assistants like Crae and Goyle --"
"Theyre not the only ones, Ive got other people on my side, etter people!"
"Then why not confide in me, and I can --"
"I know what youre up to! You want to steal my glory!"
There was another pause, then Snape said coldly, "You are speaking like a child. I quite understand that your fathers capture and imprisonment has upset you, ut --"
Harry had arely a second  s warning; he heard Malfoys footsteps on the other side of the door and flung himself out of the way just as it urst open . Malfoy was striding away down the corridor, past the open door of Slughorns office, around the distant corner, and out of sight. Hardly daring to reathe, Harry remained crouched down as Snape emerged slowly from the classroom. His expression unfath-omale, he returned to the party. Harry remained on the floor, hid-den eneath the cloak, his mind racing.
Chapter 16: AVeryFrosty Christmas
"So Snape was offering to help him? He was definitely offering to help him?"
"If you ask. that once more," said Harry, "Im going to stick this sprout --"
"Im only checking!" said Ron. They were standing alone at the Burrows kitchen sink, peeling a mountain of sprouts for Mrs. Weasley. Snow was drifting past the window in front of them.
"Yes, Snape was offering to help him!" said Harry. "He said hed promised Malfoys mother to protect him, that hed made an Un-reakale Oath or something --"
"An Unreakale Vow?" said Ron, looking stunned. "Nah, he cant have. . . . Are you sure?"
"Yes, Im sure," said Harry. "Why, what does it mean?"
"Well, you cant reak an Unreakale Vow. . . ."
"Id worked that much out for myself, funnily enough. What happens if you reak it, then?"
"You die," said Ron simply. "Fred and George tried to get me to make one when I was aout five. I nearly did too, I was holding hands with Fred and everything when Dad found us. He went mental," said Ron, with a reminiscent gleam in his eyes. "Only time Ive ever seen Dad as angry as Mum, Fred reckons his left ut-tock has never een the same since."
"Yeah, well, passing over Freds left uttock --"
"I eg your pardon?" said Freds voice as the twins entered the kitchen.
"Aaah, George, look at this. Theyre using knives and everything. Bless them."
"Ill e seventeen in two and a it months time," said Ron grumpily, "and then Ill e ale to do it y magic!"
"But meanwhile," said George, sitting down at the kitchen tale and putting his feet up on it, "we can enjoy watching you demon-strate the correct use of a -- whoops-a-daisy!"
"You made me do that!" said Ron angrily, sucking his cut thum. "You wait, when Im seventeen --"
"Im sure youll dazzle us all with hitherto unsuspected magical skills," yawned Fred.
"And speaking of hitherto unsuspected skills, Ronald," said George, "what is this we hear from Ginny aout you and a young lady called -- unless our information is faulty -- Lavender Brown?"
Ron turned a little pink, ut did not look displeased as he turned ack to the sprouts. "Mind your own usiness."
"What a snappy retort," said Fred. "I really dont know how you think of them. No, what we wanted to know was... how did it happen?"
"What dyou mean?"
"Did she have an accident or something?"
"What?" ..¦;
"Well, how did she sustain such extensive rain damage? Care-ful, now!"
Mrs. Weasley entered the room just in time to see Ron throw the sprout knife at Fred, who had turned it into a paper airplane with one lazy flick of his wand,
"Ron!" she said furiously. "Dont you ever let me see you throw-ing knives again!"
"I wont," said Ron, "let you see," he added under his reath, as he turned ack to the sprout mountain.
"Fred, George, Im sorry, dears, ut Remus is arriving tonight, so Bill will have to squeeze in with you two." ;
"No prolem," said George.
- "Then, as Charlie isnt coming home, that just leaves Harry and ;¦/ Ron in the attic, and if Fleur shares with Ginny --" "-- thatll make Ginnys Christmas --" muttered Fred. "-- everyone should e comfortale. Well, theyll have a ed, anyway," said Mrs. Weasley, sounding slightly harassed.
"Percy definitely not showing his ugly face, then?" asked Fred. Mrs. Weasley turned away efore she answered. "No, hes usy, I expect, at the Ministry."
"Or hes the worlds iggest prat," said Fred, as Mrs. Weasley left the kitchen. "One of the two. "Well, lets get going, then, George."
"What are you two up to?" asked Ron. "Cant you help us with these sprouts? You could just use your wand and then well e free
too!"
"No, I dont think we can do that," said Fred seriously. "Its very character-uilding stuff, learning to peel sprouts without magic, makes you appreciate how difficult it is for Muggles and Squis --" "-- and if you want people to help you, Ron," added George, throwing the paper airplane at him, "I wouldnt chuck knives at them. Just a little hint. Were off to the village, theres a very pretty girl working in the paper shop who thinks my card tricks are some-thing marvelous . . , almost like real magic. ..."
"Gits," said Ron darkly, watching Fred and George setting off across the snowy yard. "Wouldve only taken them ten seconds and then we couldve gone too."
"I couldnt," said Harry. "I promised Dumledore I wouldnt wander off while Im staying here."
"Oh yeah," said Ron. He peeled a few more sprouts and then said, "Are you going to tell Dumledore what you heard Snape and Malfoy saying to each other?"
"Yep," said Harry. "Im going to tell anyone who can put a stop to it, and Dumledore’s top of the list. I might have another word with your dad too."
"Pity you didnt hear what Malfoy’s actually doing, though." "I couldnt have done, could I? That was the whole point, he was refusing to tell Snape."
There was silence for a moment or two, then Ron said, " Course, you know what theyll all say? Dad and Dumledore and all of them? Theyll say Snape isnt really trying to help Malfoy, he was just trying to find out what Malfoys up to."
"They didnt hear him," said Harry flatly. "No ones that good an actor, not even Snape."
"Yeah . . . Im just saying, though/ said Ron.
Harry turned to face him, frowning. "You think Im right, though?" ,
"Yeah, I do!" said Ron hastily. "Seriously, I do! But theyre all convinced Snapes in the Order, arent they?"
Harry said nothing. It had already occurred to him that this would e the most likely ojection to his new evidence; he could hear Hermione now: Oviously, Harry, he was pretending to offer help so he could trick Malfoy into telling him what hes doing. . . .
This was pure imagination, however, as he had had no opportu-nity to tell Hermione what he had overheard. She had disappeared from Slughorns
party efore he returned to it, or so he had een informed y an irate McLaggen, and she had already gone to ed y the time he returned to the common room. As he and Ron had left for the Burrow early the next day, he had arely had time to wish her a happy Christmas and to tell her that he had some very important news when they got ack from the holidays. He was not entirely sure that she had heard him, though; Ron and Lavender had een saying a thoroughly nonveral good-ye just ehind him at the time.
Still, even Hermione would not e ale to deny one thing: Mal-foy was definitely up to something, and Snape knew it, so Harry felt fully justified in saying "I told you so," which he had done sev-eral times to Ron already.
Harry did not get the chance to speak to Mr. Weasley, who was working very long hours at the Ministry, until Christmas Eve night. The Weasleys and their guests were sitting in the living room, which Ginny had decorated so lavishly that it was rather like sitting in a paper-chain explosion. Fred, George, Harry, and Ron were the only ones who knew that the angel on top of the tree was actually a garden gnome that had itten Fred on the ankle as hr pulled up carrots for Christmas dinner. Stupefied, painted gold, stuffed into a miniature tutu and with small wings glued to il.s ack, it glowered down at them all, the ugliest angel Harry had ever seen, with a large ald head like a potato and rather hairy feet.
They were all supposed to e listening to a Christmas roadcast y Mrs. Weasleys favorite singer, Celestina Wareck, whose voice was warling out of the large wooden wireless set. Fleur, who seemed to find Celestina very dull, was talking so loudly in the corner that a scowling Mrs. Weasley kept
pointing her wand at the volume con-trol, so that Celestina grew louder and louder. Under cover of a par-ticularly jazzy numer called "A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love," Fred and George started a game of Exploding Snap with Ginny. Ron kept shooting Bill and Fleur covert looks, as though hoping to pick up tips. Meanwhile, Remus Lupin, who was thinner and more ragged-looking than ever, was sitting eside the fire, staring into its depths as though he could not hear Celestinas voice.
Oh, come and stir my cauldron,
And if you do it right,
Ill oil you up some hot strong love
To keep you warm tonight.
"We danced to this when we were eighteen!" said Mrs. Weasley, wiping her eyes on her knitting. "Do you rememer, Arthur?"
"Mphf?" said Mr. Weasley, whose head had een nodding over the satsuma he was peeling. "Oh yes ... marvelous tune . . ."
With an effort, he sat up a little straighter and looked around at Harry, who was sitting next to him.
"Sorry aout this," he said, jerking his head toward the wireless as Celestina roke into the chorus. "Be over soon."
"No prolem," said Harry, grinning. "Has it een usy at the Ministry?"
"Very," said Mr. Weasley. "I wouldnt mind if we were getting anywhere, ut of the three arrests weve made in the last couple of months, I dout that one of them is a genuine Death Eater -- only dont repeat that, Harry," he added quickly, looking much more awake all of a sudden.
"Theyre not still holding Stan Shunpike, are they?" asked Harry.
"Im afraid so," said Mr. Weasley. "I know Dumledores tried appealing directly to Scrimgeour aout Stan. ... I mean, anyody who has actually interviewed him agrees that hes aout as much a Death Eater as this satsuma . . . ut the top levels want to look as though theyre making some progress, and three arrests sounds etter than three mistaken arrests and releases. . . ut again, this is
all top secret. . . ."
"I wont say anything," said Harry. He hesitated for a moment, wondering how est to emark on what he wanted to say; as he marshaled his thoughts, Celestina Wareck egan a allad called "You Charmed the Heart Right Out of Me."
"Mr. Weasley, you know what I told you at the station when we were setting off for school?"
"I checked, Harry," said Mr. Weasley at once. "I went and searched the Malfoys house. There was nothing, either roken or whole, that shouldnt have een there."
"Yeah, I know, I saw in the Prophet that youd looked . . . ut this is something different. . . . Well, something more ..."
And he told Mr. Weasley everything he had overheard etween
Malfoy and Snape, As Harry spoke, he saw Lupins head turn a lit-tle toward him, taking in every word. When he had finished, there was silence, except for Celestinas crooning.
Oh, my poor heart, where has it gone? Its left me for a spell...
"Has it occurred to you, Harry," said Mr. Weasley, "that Snape was simply pretending -- ?"
"Pretending to offer help, so that he could find out what Malfoys up to?" said Harry quickly. "Yeah, I thought youd say that. But how do we know?"
"It isnt our usiness to know," said Lupin unexpectedly. He had turned his ack on the fire now and faced Harry across Mr. Weasley. "Its Dumledore’s usiness. Dumledore trusts Severus, and that ought to e good enough for all of us."
"But," said Harry, "just say -- just say Dumledores wrong aout Snape --"
"People have said it, many times. It comes down to whether or not you trust Dumledore’s judgment. I do; therefore, I trust Severus."
"But Dumledore can make mistakes," argued Harry. "He says it himself. And you" -- he looked Lupin straight in the eye -- "do you honestly like Snape?"
"I neither like nor dislike Severus," said Lupin. "No, Harry, I am speaking the truth," he added, as Harry pulled a skeptical expres-sion. "We shall never e osom friends, perhaps; after all that hap-pened etween James and Sirius and Severus, there is too much itterness there. But I do not forget that during the year I taught at Hogwarts, Severus made the Wolfsane Potion for me every month, made it perfectly, so that I did not have to suffer as I usu-ally do at the full moon."
"But he accidentally let it slip that youre a werewolf, so you had to leave!" said Harry angrily.
Lupin shrugged. "The news would have leaked out anyway. We oth know he wanted my jo, ut he could have wreaked much worse damage on me y tampering with the potion. He kept me healthy. I must e grateful."
"Maye he didnt dare mess with the potion with Dumledore watching him!" said Harry.
"You are determined to hate him, Harry," said Lupin with a faint smile. "And I understand; with James as your father, with Sir-ius as your godfather, you have inherited an old prejudice. By all means tell Dumledore what you have told Arthur and me, ut do not expect him to share your view of the matter; do not even expect him to e surprised y what you tell him. It might have een on Dumledores orders that Severus questioned Draco." ;
. . . and now youve torn it quite apart Ill thank you to give ack my heart!
Celestina ended her song on a very long, high-pitched note and loud applause issued out of the wireless, which Mrs. Weasley joined in with enthusiastically.
"Eez eet over?" said Fleur loudly. "Thank goodness, what an orrile --"
"Shall we have a nightcap, then?" asked Mr. Weasley loudly, leaping to his feet. "Who wants eggnog?"
"What have you een up to lately?" Harry asked Lupin, as Mr, Weasley ustled off to fetch the eggnog, and everyody else stretched and roke into conversation.
"Oh, Ive een underground," said Lupin. "Almost literally. Thats why I havent een ale to write, Harry; sending letters to you would have een something of a giveaway." -:
"What do you mean?" 
"Ive een living among my fellows, my equals," said Lupin. "Werewolves," he added, at Harrys look of incomprehension. "Nearly all of them are on Voldemorts side. Dumledore wanted a spy and here I was . . . ready-made."
He sounded a little itter, and perhaps realized it, for he smiled more warmly as he went on, "I am not complaining; it is necessary work and who can do it etter than I? However, it has een difficult gaining their trust. I ear the unmistakale signs of having tried to live among wizards, you see, whereas they have shunned normal society and live on the margins, stealing -- and sometimes killing -- to eat."
"How come they like Voldemort?"
"They think that, under his rule, they will have a etter life," said Lupin. "And it is hard to argue with Greyack out there. . . ."
"Whos Greyack?"
"You havent heard of him?" Lupins hands closed convulsively in his lap. "Fenrir Greyack is, perhaps, the most savage werewolf alive today. He regards it as his mission in life to ite and to conta-minate as many people as possile; he wants to create enough were-wolves to overcome the wizards. Voldemort has promised him prey in return for his services. Greyack specializes in children. . . . Bite them young, he says, and raise them away
from their parents, raise them to hate normal wizards. Voldemort has threatened to unleash him upon peoples sons and daughters; it is a threat that usually produces good results."
Lupin paused and then said, "It was Greyack who it me." "What?" said Harry, astonished. "When -- when you were a kid, you mean?"
"Yes. My father had offended him. I did not know, for a very long time, the identity of the werewolf who had attacked me; I even felt pity for him, thinking that he had had no control, know-ing y then how it felt to transform. But Greyack is not like that. At the full moon, he positions himself close to victims, ensuring that he is near enough to strike. He plans it all. And this is the man Voldemort is using to marshal the werewolves. I cannot pretend that my particular rand of reasoned argument is making much headway against Greyacks insistence that we werewolves deserve lood, that we ought to revenge ourselves on normal people." "But you are normal!" said Harry fiercely. "Youve just got a -- a
prolem --"
Lupin urst out laughing. "Sometimes you remind me a lot of James. He called it my furry little prolem in company. Many people were under the impression that I owned a adly ehaved
rait."
He accepted a glass of eggnog from Mr. Weasley with a word of thanks, looking slightly more cheerful, Harry, meanwhile, felt a rush of excitement: This last mention of his father had reminded him that there was something he had een looking forward to ask-ing Lupin.
"Have you ever heard of someone called the Half-Blood Prince?"
"The Half-Blood what?"
"Prince," said Harry, watching him closely for signs of recogni-tion.
"There are no Wizarding princes," said Lupin, now smiling. "Is this a title you re thinking of adopting? I should have thought e-ing the Chosen One would e enough."
"Its nothing to do with me!" said Harry indignantly. "The Half-Blood Prince is someone who used to go to Hogwarts, Ive got his old Potions ook. He wrote spells all over it, spells he invented. One of them was Levicorpus --"
"Oh, that one had a great vogue during my time at Hogwarts," said Lupin reminiscently. "There were a few months in my fifth year when you couldnt move for eing hoisted into the air y your ankle."
"My dad used it," said Harry. "I saw him in the Pensieve, he used it on Snape."
He tried to sound casual, as though this was a throwaway com-ment of no real importance, ut he was not sure he had achieved the right effect; Lupins smile was a little too understanding.
"Yes," he said, "ut he wasnt the only one. As I say, it was very popular. . . . You know how these spells come and go. , . ."
"But it sounds like it was invented while you were at school," Harry persisted.
"Not necessarily," said Lupin. "Jinxes go in and out of fashion like everything else."
He looked into Harrys face and then said quietly, "James was a purelood, Harry, and I promise you, he never asked us to call him Prince."
Aandoning pretense, Harry said, "And it wasnt Sirius? Or you?"
"Definitely not."
"Oh." Harry stared into the fire. "I just thought -- well, hes helped me out a lot in Potions classes, the Prince has."
"How old is this ook, Harry?"
"I dunno, Ive never checked."
"Well, perhaps that will give you some clue as to when the Prince was at Hogwarts," said Lupin.
Shortly after this, Fleur decided to imitate Celestina singing "A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love," which was taken y everyone, once they had glimpsed Mrs. Weasleys expression, to e the cue to go to ed. Harry and Ron climed all the way up to Rons attic edroom, where a camp ed had een added for Harry.
Ron fell asleep almost immediately, ut Harry delved into his trunk and pulled out his copy of Advanced Potion-Making efore getting into ed. There he turned its pages, searching, until he finally found, at the front of the ook, the date that it had een pu-lished. It was nearly fifty years old. Neither his father, nor his fathers friends, had een at Hogwarts fifty years ago. Feeling disappointed, Harry threw the ook ack into his trunk, turned off the lamp, and rolled over, thinking of werewolves and Snape, Stan Shunpike and the Half-Blood Prince, and finally falling into an uneasy sleep full of creeping shadows and the cries of itten children. . . .
"Shes got to e joking. . . ."
Harry woke with a start to find a ulging stocking lying over the end of his ed. He put on his glasses and looked around; the tiny window was almost completely oscured with snow and, in front of it, Ron was sitting olt upright in ed and examining what ap-peared to e a thick gold chain.
"Whats chat?" asked Harry. 
"Its from Lavender," said Ron, sounding revolted^ "She earn
honestly think Id wear ..."
Harry looked more closely and let out a shout of laughter, Dan
gling from the chain in large gold letters were the words:
"My sweetheart"
"Nice," he said. "Classy. You should definitely wear it in front ol Fred and George."
"If you tell them," said Ron, shoving the necklace out of sight under his pillow, "I -- I -- I’ll --"
"Stutter at me?" said Harry, grinning. "Come on, would I?"
"How could she think Id like something like that, though?" Ron demanded of thin air, looking rather shocked.
"Well, think ack," said Harry. "Have you ever let it slip that youd like to go out in pulic with the words My Sweetheart round your neck?"
"Well... we dont really talk much," said Ron. "Its mainly . . ."
"Snogging," said Harry.
"Well, yeah," said Ron. He hesitated a moment, then said, "Is Hermione really going out with McLaggen?"
"I dunno," said Harry. "They were at Slughorns party together, ut I dont think it went that well."
Ron looked slightly more cheerful as he delved deeper into his stocking.
Harrys presents included a sweater with a large Golden Snitch worked onto the front, hand-knitted y Mrs. Weasley, a large ox of Weasleys Wizard Wheezes products from the twins, and a slightly damp, moldy-smelling package that came with a lael read-ing To Master, From Kreacher,
Harry stared at it. "Dyou reckon this is safe to open?" he asked. "Cant e anything dangerous, all our mails still eing searched at the Ministry," replied Ron, though he was eyeing the parcel suspiciously.
"I didnt think of giving Kreacher anything. Do people usually give their house-elves Christmas presents?" asked Harry, prodding the parcel cautiously.
"Hermione would," said Ron. "But lets wait and see what it is efore you start feeling guilty."
A moment later, Harry had given a loud yell and leapt out of his camp ed; the package contained a large numer of maggots. "Nice," said Ron, roaring with laughter. "Very thoughtful." "Id rather have them than that necklace," said Harry, which soered Ron up at once.
Everyody was wearing new sweaters when they all sat down for Christmas lunch, everyone except Fleur (on whom, it appeared, Mrs. Weasley had not wanted to waste one) and Mrs. Weasley herself, who was sporting a rand-new midnight lue witchs hat glittering with what looked like tiny starlike diamonds, and a spec-tacular golden necklace.
"Fred and George gave them to me! Arent they eautiful?" .: "Well, we find we appreciate you more and more, Mum, now were washing our own socks," said George, waving an airy hand. "Parsnips, Remus?"
"Harry, youve got a maggot in your hair," said Ginny cheerfully, leaning across the tale to pick it out; Harry felt goose umps erupt up his neck that had nothing to do with the maggot.
"Ow orrile," said Fleur, with an affected little shudder.
"Yes, isnt it?" said Ron. "Gravy, Fleur?"
. In his eagerness to help her, he knocked the gravy oat flying; Bill waved his wand and the gravy soared up in the air and returned meekly to the oat.
"You are as ad as zat Tonks," said Fleur to Ron, when she had finished kissing Bill in thanks. "She is always knocking --"
"I invited dear Tonks to come along today," said Mrs. Weasley, setting down the carrots with unnecessary force and glaring at Fleur. "But she wouldnt come. Have you spoken to her lately, Remus?"
"No, I havent een in contact with anyody very much," said Lupin. "But Tonks has got her own family to go to, hasnt she?"
"Hmmm," said Mrs. Weasley. "Maye. I got the impression she was planning to spend Christmas alone, actually."
She gave Lupin an annoyed look, as though it was all his fault she was getting Fleur for a daughter-in-law instead of Tonks, ut Harry, glancing across at Fleur, who was now feeding Bill its of turkey off her own fork, thought that Mrs. Weasley was fighting a long-lost attle. He was, however, reminded of a question he had with regard to Tonks, and who etter to ask than Lupin, the man who knew all aout Patronuses?
"Tonkss Patronus has changed its form," he told him. "Snape said so anyway. I didnt know that could happen. Why would your Patronus change?"
Lupin took his time chewing his turkey and swallowing efore saying slowly, "Sometimes ... a great shock ... an emotional up-heaval ..."
"It looked ig, and it had four legs," said Harry, struck y a sud-den thought and lowering his voice. "Hey ... it couldnt e -- ?"
"Arthur!" said Mrs. Weasley suddenly. She had risen from her chair; her hand was pressed over her heart and she was staring out of the kitchen window. "Arthur -- its Percy!"
"What?"
Mr. Weasley looked around. Everyody looked quickly at the window; Ginny stood up for a etter look. There, sure enough, was Percy Weasley, striding across the snowy yard, his horn-rimmed glasses glinting in the sunlight. He was not, however, alone.
"Arthur, hes -- hes with the Minister!"
And sure enough, the man Harry had seen in the Daily Prophet was following along in Percys wake, limping slightly, his mane of graying hair and his lack cloak flecked with snow. Before any of , them could say anything, efore Mr. and Mrs. Weasley could do : more than exchange stunned looks, the ack door opened and there stood Percy.
There was a moments painful silence. Then Percy said rather stiffly, "Merry Christmas, Mother."
"Oh, Percy!" said Mrs. Weasley, and she threw herself into his arms.
Rufus Scrimgeour paused in the doorway, leaning on his walk-ing stick and smiling as he oserved this affecting scene.
"You must forgive this intrusion," he said, when Mrs. Weasley looked around at him, eaming and wiping her eyes. "Percy and I were in the vicinity -- working, you know -- and he couldnt re-sist dropping in and seeing you all."
But Percy showed no sign of wanting to greet any of the rest of the family. He stood, poker-straight and awkward-looking, and stared over everyody elses heads. Mr. Weasley, Fred, and George were all oserving him, stony-faced.
"Please, come in, sit down, Minister!" fluttered Mrs. Weasley, straightening her hat. Have a little purkey, or some tooding. ... 1 . mean --"
"No, no, my dear Molly," said Scrimgeour. Harry guessed that he had checked her name with Percy efore they entered the house. "I dont want to intrude, wouldnt e here at all if Percy hadnt wanted to see you all so adly. . . ."
"Oh, Perce!" said Mrs. Weasley tearfully, reaching up to kiss him.
". , . Weve only looked in for five minutes, so Ill have a stroll around the yard while you catch up with Percy. No, no, I assure you I dont want to utt in! Well, if anyody cared to show me your charming garden . . . Ah, that young mans finished, why doesnt he take a stroll with me?"
The atmosphere around the tale changed perceptily. Every-ody looked from Scrimgeour to Harry. Noody seemed to find Scrimgeours pretense that he did not know Harrys name convincing, or find it natural that he should e chosen to accompany the Minister around the garden when Ginny, Fleur, and George also had clean plates.
"Yeah, all right," said Harry into the silence.
He was not fooled; for all Scrimgeours talk that they had just een in the area, that Percy wanted to look up his family, this must e the real reason that they had come, so that Scrimgeour could speak to Harry alone.
"Its fine," he said quietly, as he passed Lupin, who had half risen from his chair. "Fine," he added, as Mr. Weasley opened his mouth to speak.
"Wonderful!" said Scrimgeour, standing ack to let Harry pass
through the door ahead of him. "Well just take a turn around the garden, and Percy and Ill e off. Carry on, everyone!"
Harry walked across the yard toward the Weasleys overgrown, snow-covered garden, Scrimgeour limping slightly at his side. He had, Harry knew, een Head of the Auror office; he looked tough and attle-scarred, very different from portly Fudge in his owler hat.
"Charming," said Scrimgeour, stopping at the garden fence and looking out over the snowy lawn and the indistinguishale plants. "Charming."
Harry said nothing. He could tell that Scrimgeour was watching him.
"Ive wanted to meet you for a very long time," said Scrimgeour, after a few moments. "Did you know that?"
"No," said Harry truthfully. ¦!.
"Oh yes, for a very long time. But Dumledore has een very protective of you," said Scrimgeour. "Natural, of course, natural, after what youve een through. . . . Especially what happened at : the Ministry ...":
He waited for Harry to say something, ut Harry did not olige, : so he went on, "I have een hoping for an occasion to talk to you ever since I gained office, ut Dumledore has -- most under-standaly, as I say -- prevented this."
Still, Harry said nothing, waiting.
"The rumors that have flown around!" said Scrimgeour. "Well, of course, we oth know how these stories get distorted ... all these whispers of a prophecy . . . of you eing the Chosen One. . ."
They were getting near it now, Harry thought, the reason Scrim-geour was here.
"I assume that Dumledore has discussed these matters with you?",
Harry delierated, wondering whether he ought to lie or not. He looked at the little gnome prints all around the flowereds, ami the scuffed-up patch that marked the spot where Fred had caught the gnome now wearing the tutu at the top of the Christmas tree. Finally, he decided on the truth ... or a it of it.
"Yeah, weve discussed it."
"Have you, have you . . ." said Scrimgeour. Harry could see, out of the corner of his eye, Scrimgeour squinting at him, so he pre-tended to e very interested in a gnome that had just poked its head out from underneath a frozen rhododendron. "And what has Dumledore told you, Harry?"
"Sorry, ut thats etween us," said Harry. He kept his voice as pleasant as he could, and Scrimgeours tone, too, was light and friendly as he said, "Oh, of course, if its a question of confidences, I wouldnt want you to divulge . . . no, no ... and in any case, does it really matter whether you are the Chosen One or not?"
Harry had to mull that one over for a few seconds efore re-sponding. "I dont really know what you mean, Minister."
"Well, of course, to you it will matter enormously," said Scrim-geour with a laugh. "But to the Wizarding community at large . . . its all perception, isnt it? Its what people elieve thats important."
Harry said nothing. He thought he saw, dimly, where they were heading, ut he was not going to help Scrimgeour get there. The gnome under the rhododendron was now digging for worms at its roots, and Harry kept his eyes fixed upon it.
"People elieve you are the Chosen One, you see," said Scrim-geour. "They think you quite the hero -- which, of course, you arc, Harry, chosen or not! How many times have you faced He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named now? Well, anyway," he pressed on, without waiting for a reply, "the point is, you are a symol of hope lor many, Harry. The idea that there is someody out there who might e ale, who might even e destined, to destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named -- well, naturally, it gives people a lift. And I cant help ut feel that, once you realize this, you might consider it, well, almost a duty, to stand alongside the Ministry, and give everyone a oost."
The gnome had just managed to get hold of a worm. It was now tugging very hard on it, trying to get it out of the frozen ground. Harry was silent so
long that Scrimgeour said, looking from Harry to the gnome, "Funny little chaps, arent they? But what say you, Harry?"
"I dont exactly understand what you want," said Harry slowly. "Stand alongside the Ministry . . . What does that mean?"
"Oh, well, nothing at all onerous, I assure you," said Scrim-geour. "If you were to e seen popping in and out of the Ministry from time to time, for instance, that would give the right impres-sion. And of course, while you were there, you would have ample : opportunity to speak to Gawain Roards, my successor as Head of the Auror office. Dolores Umridge has told me that you cherish an amition to ecome an Auror. Well, that could e arranged very easily. ..."
Harry felt anger uling in the pit of his stomach: So Dolores Umridge was still at the Ministry, was she?
"So asically," he said, as though he just wanted to clarify a few points, "youd like to give the impression that Im working for the Ministry?"
"It would give everyone a lift to think you were more involved, Harry," said Scrimgeour, sounding relieved that Harry had cot-toned on so quickly. "The Chosen One, you know. . . Its all aout giving people hope, the feeling that exciting things are hap-pening. ..."
"But if I keep running in and out of the Ministry," said Harry, still endeavoring to keep his voice friendly, "wont that seem as though I approve of what the Ministrys up to?"
"Well," said Scrimgeour, frowning slightly, "well, yes, thats partly why wed like --"
"No, I dont think thatll work," said Harry pleasantly. "You see, I dont like some of the things the Ministrys doing. Locking up Stan Shunpike, for instance."
Scrimgeour did not speak for a moment ut his expression hard-ened instantly. "I would not expect you to understand," he said, and he was not as successful at keeping anger out of his voice as Harry had een. "These are dangerous times, and certain measures need to e taken. You are sixteen years old --"
"Dumledores a lot older than sixteen, and he doesnt think Stan should e in Azkaan either," said Harry. "Youre making Stan a scapegoat, just like you want to make me a mascot."
They looked at each other, long and hard. Finally Scrimgeour said, with no pretense at warmth, "I see. You prefer -- like your hero, Dumledore -- to disassociate yourself from the Ministry?" "I dont want to e used," said Harry.
"Some would say its your duty to e used y the Ministry!" "Yeah, and others might say its your duty to check that people really are Death Eaters efore you chuck them in prison," said Harry, his temper rising now. "Youre doing what Barty Crouch
did. You never get it right, you people, do you? Either weve got Fudge, pretending everythings lovely while people get murdered right under his nose, or weve got you, chucking the wrong people into jail and trying to pretend youve got the Chosen One work-ing for you!"  i
"So youre not the Chosen One?" said Scrimgeour. 
"I thought you said it didnt matter either way?" said Harry, with a itter laugh. "Not to you anyway."
"I shouldnt have said that," said Scrimgeour quickly. "It was tactless --"
"No, it was honest," said Harry. "One of the only honest things youve said to me. You dont care whether I live or die, ut you do care that I help you convince everyone youre winning the war against Voldemort. I havent forgotten, Minister...."
He raised his right fist. There, shining white on the ack of his cold hand, were the scars which Dolores Umridge had forced him to carve into his own flesh: I must not tell lies.
"I dont rememer you rushing to my defense when I was trying to tell everyone Voldemort was ack. The Ministry wasnt so keen to e pals last year."
They stood in silence as icy as the ground eneath their feet. The gnome had finally managed to extricate his worm and was now sucking on it happily, leaning against the ottommost ranches of the rhododendron ush.
"What is Dumledore up to?" said Scrimgeour rusquely. "Where does he go when he is asent from Hogwarts?"
"No idea," said Harry.
"And you wouldnt tell me if you knew," said Scrimgeour, "would you?"
"No, 1 wouldnt," said Harry.
"Well, then, I shall have to see whether I cant find out y other means."
"You can try," said Harry indifferently. "But you seem cleverer than Fudge, so Id have thought youd have learned from his mis-takes. He tried interfering at Hogwarts. You might have noticed hes not Minister anymore, ut Dumledore’s still headmaster. Id leave Dumledore alone, if I were you."
There was a long pause.
"Well, it is clear to me that he has done a very good jo on you," said Scrimgeour, his eyes cold and hard ehind his wire-rimmed glasses, "Dumledore’s man through and through, arent you, Potter?"
"Yeah, I am," said Harry. "Glad we straightened that out."
And turning his ack on the Minister of Magic, he strode ack toward the house.
Chapter 17: A Sluggish Memory
Late in the afternoon, a few days after New Year, Harry, Ron, and Ginny lined up eside the kitchen fire to return to Hogwarts. The Ministry had arranged this one-off connection to the Floo Network to return students quickly and safely to the school. Only Mrs. Weasley was there to say good-ye, as Mr. Weasley, Fred, George, Bill, and Fleur were all at work. Mrs. Weasley dissolved into tears at the moment of parting. Admittedly, it took very little to set her off lately; she had een crying on and off ever since Percy had stormed from the house on Christmas Day with his glasses splattered with mashed parsnip (for which Fred, George, and Ginny all claimed credit).
"Dont cry, Mum," said Ginny, patting her on the ack as Mrs. Weasley soed into her shoulder. "Its okay. ..."
"Yeah, dont worry aout us," said Ron, permitting his mother to plant a very wet kiss on his cheek, "or aout Percy. Hes such a prat, its not really a loss, is it?"
Mrs. Weasley soed harder than ever as she enfolded Harry in her arms.
"Promise me youll look after yourself.. .. Stay out of troule. ..."
"I always do, Mrs. Weasley," said Harry. "I like a quiet life, you know me."
She gave a watery chuckle and stood ack. "Be good, then, all of you. ..."
Harry stepped into the emerald fire and shouted "Hogwarts!" He had one last fleeting view of the Weasleys kitchen and Mrs. Weasleys tearful face efore the flames engulfed him; spinning very fast, he caught lurred glimpses of other Wizarding rooms, which were whipped out of sight efore he could get a proper look; then he was slowing down, finally stopping squarely in the fireplace in Professor McGonagalls office. She arely glanced up from her work as he clamered out over the grate.
"Evening, Potter. Try not to get too much ash on the carpet."
"No, Professor."
Harry straightened his glasses and flattened his hair as Ron came spinning into view. When Ginny had arrived, all three of them trooped out of McGonagalls office and off toward Gryffindor Tower. Harry glanced out of the corridor windows as they passed; the sun was already sinking over grounds carpeted in deeper snow than had lain over the Burrow garden. In the distance, he could see Hagrid feeding Buckeak in front of his cain.
"Baules," said Ron confidently, when they reached the Fat Lady, who was looking rather paler than usual and winced at his loud voice.
"No," she said.
"What d’you mean, ‘no’ ?
"There is a new password," she said. "And please dont shout."
"But weve een away, howre we supposed to -- ?"
"Harry! Ginny!"
Hermione was hurrying toward them, very pink-faced and wearing a cloak, hat, and gloves.
"I got ack a couple of hours ago, Ive just een down to visit Hagrid and Buck -- I mean Witherwings," she said reathlessly. "Did you have a good Christmas?"
"Yeah," said Ron at once, "pretty eventful, Rufus Scrim --" ] "Ive got something for you, Harry," said Hermione, neither looking at Ron nor giving any sign that she had heard him. "Oh, hang on -- password. Astinence."
"Precisely," said the Fat Lady in a feele voice, and swung forward to reveal the portrait hole.
"Whats up with her?" asked Harry.
"Overindulged over Christmas, apparently," said Hermione, rolling her eyes as she led the way into the packed common room. "She and her friend
Violet drank their way through all the wine in that picture of drunk monks down y the Charms corridor. Anyway..."
She rummaged in her pocket for a moment, then pulled out a scroll of parchment with Dumledores writing on it.
"Great," said Harry, unrolling it at once to discover that his next lesson with Dumledore was scheduled for the following night. "I’ve got loads to tell him -- and you. Lets sit down --"
But at that moment there was a loud squeal of "Won-Won!" and Lavender Brown came hurtling out of nowhere and flung herself into Rons arms. Several onlookers sniggered; Hermione gave a tinkling laugh and said, "Theres a cale over here... Coming. Ginny?"
"No, thanks, I said Id meet Dean," said Ginny, though Harry could not help noticing that she did not sound very enthusiastic. Leaving Ron and Lavender locked in a kind of vertical wrestling, match, Harry led Hermione over to the spare tale.
"So how was your Christmas?"
"Oh, fine," she shrugged. "Nothing special. How was it at Won-Wons?"
"Ill tell you in a minute," said Harry. "Look, Hermione, cant you --"
"No, I cant," she said flatly. "So dont even ask."
"I thought maye, you know, over Christmas --"
"It was the Fat Lady who drank a vat of five-hundred-year-old wine, Harry, not me. So what was this important news you wanted to tell me?"
She looked too fierce to argue with at that moment, so Harry dropped the suject of Ron and recounted all that he had overheard etween Malfoy and Snape. When he had finished, Hermione sat in thought for a moment and then said, "Dont you think -- ?"
"-- he was pretending to offer help so that he could trick Malfoy into telling him what hes doing?"
"Well, yes," said Hermione.
"Ron’s dad and Lupin think so," Harry said grudgingly. "But this definitely proves Malfoy’s planning something, you cant deny that."
"No, I cant," she answered slowly.
"And hes acting on Voldemorts orders, just like I said!"
"Hmm .. . did either of them actually mention Voldemorts name?"
Harry frowned, trying to rememer. "Im not sure ... Snape definitely said your master, and who else would that e?"
"I dont know," said Hermione, iting her lip. "Maye his father?"
She stared across the room, apparently lost in thought, not even noticing Lavender tickling Ron. "Hows Lupin?"
"Not great," said Harry, and he told her all aout Lupin’s mission among the werewolves and the difficulties he was facing. "Have you heard of this Fenrir Greyack?"
"Yes, I have!" said Hermione, sounding startled. "And so have you, Harry!"
"When, History of Magic? You know full well I never listened ..."
"No, no, not History of Magic -- Malfoy threatened Borgin with Kim!" said Hermione. "Back in Knockturn Alley, dont you rememer? He told Borgin that Greyack was an old family friend and that hed e checking up on Borgins progress!"
Harry gaped at her. "I forgot! But this proves Malfoy s a Death Eater, how else could he e in contact with Greyack and telling him what to do?"
"It is pretty suspicious," reathed Hermione. "Unless . . ." "Oh, come on," said Harry in exasperation, "you cant get round this one!"
"Well . . . there is the possiility it was an empty threat." "Youre unelievale, you are," said Harry, shaking his head.
"Well see whos right. . . . Youll e eating your words, Hermione, just like the Ministry. Oh yeah, 1 had a row with Rufus Scrimgeour as well. . . ."
And the rest of the evening passed amicaly with oth of them ausing the Minister of Magic, for Hermione, like Ron, thought that after all the Ministry had put Harry through the previous year, they had a great deal of nerve asking him for help now.
The new term started next morning with a pleasant surprise for the sixth years: a large sign had een pinned to the common room notice oards overnight.
APPARITION LESSONS
If you are seventeen years of age, or will turn seventeen on or efore the 31st August next, you are eligile for a twelve-week course of Apparition Lessons from a Ministry of Magic Apparition instructor. Please sign elow if you would like to participate. Cost: 12 Galleons.
Harry and Ron joined the crowd that was jostling around the notice and taking it in turns to write their names at the ottom. Ron was just taking out his quill to sign after Hermione when Lavender crept up ehind him, slipped her hands over his eyes, and trilled, "Guess who, Won-Won?" Harry turned to see Hermione stalking off; he caught up with her, having no wish to stay ehind with Ron and Lavender, ut to his surprise, Ron caught up with them only a little way eyond the portrait hole, his ears right red and his expression disgruntled. Without a word, Hermione sped up to walk with Neville.
"So -- Apparition," said Ron, his tone making it perfectly plain that Harry was not to mention what had just happened. "Should e a laugh, eh?"
"I dunno," said Harry. "Maye its etter when you do it yourself, I didn’t enjoy it much when Dumledore took me along for the ride."
"I forgot youd already done it. ... Id etter pass my test first
time," said Ron, looking anxious. "Fred and George did," "Charlie failed, though, didnt he?" "Yeah, ut Charlies igger than me" -- Ron held his arms out from his ody as though he was a gorilla -- "so Fred and George
didnt go on aout it much . . . not to his face anyway . . ." "When can we take the actual test?" "Soon as were seventeen. Thats only March for me!" "Yeah, ut you wouldnt e ale to Apparate in here, not in the castle . . ."
"Not the point, is it? Everyone would know I could Apparate if I wanted."
Ron was not the only one to e excited at the prospect of Apparition. All that day there was much talk aout the forthcoming , lessons; a great deal of store was set y eing ale to vanish and reappear at will.
"How cool will it e when we can just --" Seamus clicked his ringers to indicate disappearance. "Me cousin Fergus does it just to annoy me, you wait till I can do it ack. . . Hell never have another peaceful moment. . . ."
Lost in visions of this happy prospect, he flicked his wand a little too enthusiastically, so that instead of producing the fountain of pure water that was the oject of todays Charms lesson, he let out a hoselike jet that ricocheted off the ceiling and knocked Professor Flitwick flat on his face.
"Harry’s already Apparated," Ron told a slightly aashed Seamus, after Professor Flitwick had dried himself off with a wave of his wand and set Seamus lines: "I am a wizard, not a aoon randishing a stick." "Dum -- er -- someone took him. Side-Along-Apparition, you know."
"Whoa!" whispered Seamus, and he, Dean, and Neville put their heads a little closer to hear what Apparition felt like. For the rest of the day, Harry was esieged with requests from the other sixth years to descrie the sensation of Apparition. All of them seemed awed, rather than put off, when he told them how uncomfortale it was, and he was still answering detailed questions at ten to eight that evening, when he was forced to lie and say that he needed to return a ook to the lirary, so as to escape in time for his lesson with Dumledore.
The lamps in Dumledore’s office were lit, the portraits of previous headmasters were snoring gently in their frames, and the Pen-sieve was ready upon the desk once more. Dumledore’s hands lay on either side of it, the right one as lackened and urnt-looking as ever. It did not seem to have healed at all and Harry wondered, for perhaps the hundredth time, what had caused such a distinctive injury, ut did not ask; Dumledore had said that he would know eventually and there was, in any case, another suject he wanted to discuss. But efore Harry could say anything aout Snape and Malfoy, Dumledore spoke.
"I hear that you met the Minister of Magic over Christmas?" "Yes," said Harry. "Hes not very happy with me."
"No," sighed Dumledore. "He is not very happy with me either. We must try not to sink eneath our anguish, Harry, ut attle on."
Harry grinned.
"He wanted me to tell the Wizarding community that the Ministrys doing a wonderful jo.
Dumledore smiled.
"It was Fudges idea originally, you know. During his last days in office, when he was trying desperately to cling to his post, he sought a meeting with you, hoping that you would give him your
support --"
"After everything Fudge did last year?" said Harry angrily. "After Umridge ?"
"I told Cornelius there was no chance of it, ut the idea did not die when he left: office. Within hours of Scrimgeours appointment we met and he demanded that I arrange a meeting with you --"
"So thats why you argued!" Harry lurted out. "It was in the Daily Prophet"
"The Prophet is ound to report the truth occasionally," said Dumledore, "if only accidentally. Yes, that was why we argued. Well, it appears that Rufus found a way to corner you at last."
"He accused me of eing Dumledores man through and through."
"How very rude of him."
"I told him I was."
Dumledore opened his mouth to speak and then closed it again. Behind Harry, Fawkes the phoenix let out a low, soft, musical cry. To Harry’s intense emarrassment, he suddenly realized
that Dumledores right lue eyes looked rather watery, ami stared hastily at his own knees. When Dumledore spoke, however, his voice was quite steady.
"I am very touched, Harry."
"Scrimgeour wanted to know where you go when youre not at Hogwarts," said Harry, still looking fixedly at his knees.
"Yes, he is very nosy aout that," said Dumledore, now sounding cheerful, and Harry thought it safe to look up again. "He has even attempted to have me followed. Amusing, really. He set Dawlish to tail me. It wasnt kind. I have already een forced to jinx Dawlish once; I did it again with the greatest regret."
"So they still dont know where you go?" asked Harry, hoping for more information on this intriguing suject, ut Dumledore merely smiled over the top of his half-moon spectacles.
"No, they dont, and the time is not quite right for you to know either. Now, I suggest we press on, unless theres anything else -- ?" "There is, actually, sir," said Harry. "Its aout Malfoy and Snape."
"Professor Snape, Harry."
"Yes, sir. I overheard them during Professor Slughorns party . . . well, I followed them, actually. ..."
Dumledore listened to Harrys story with an impassive face. When Harry had finished he did not speak for a few moments, then said, "Thank you for telling me this, Harry, ut I suggest that you put it out of your mind. I do not think that it is of great importance."
"Not of great importance?" repeated Harry incredulously. "Professor, did you understand -- ?"
"Yes, Harry, lessed as I am with extraordinary rainpower, I understood everything you told me," said Dumledore, a little sharply. "I think you might even consider the possiility that I understood more than you did. Again, I am glad that you have con-lided in me, ut let me reassure you that you have not told me anything that causes me disquiet."
Harry sat in seething silence, glaring at Dumledore. What was going on? Did this mean that Dumledore had indeed ordered Snape to find out what Malfoy was doing, in which case he had already heard everything Harry had just told him from Snape? Or was he really worried y what he had heard, ut pretending not to e?
"So, sir," said Harry, in what he hoped was a polite, calm voice, "you definitely still trust -- ?"
"I have een tolerant enough to answer that question already," said Dumledore, ut he did not sound very tolerant anymore. "My answer has not changed."
"I should think not," said a snide voice; Phineas Nigellus was evidently only pretending to e asleep. Dumledore ignored him.
"And now, Harry, I must insist that we press on. I have more important things to discuss with you this evening."
Harry sat there feeling mutinous. How would it e if he refused to permit the change of suject, if he insisted upon arguing the case against Malfoy? As though he had read Harrys mind, Dumledore shook his head.
"Ah, Harry, how often this happens, even etween the est of friends! Each of us elieves that what he has to say is much more important than anything the other might have to contriute!"
"I dont think what youve got to say is unimportant, sir," said Harry stiffly.
"Well, you are quite right, ecause it is not," said Dumledore riskly. "I have two more memories to show you this evening, oth otained with enormous difficulty, and the second of them is, 1 think, the most important I have collected."
Harry did not say anything to this; he still felt angry at the reception his confidences had received, ut could not see what was to e gained y arguing further.
"So," said Dumledore, in a ringing voice, "we meet this evening to continue the tale of Tom Riddle, whom we left last lesson poised on the threshold of his years at Hogwarts. You will rememer how excited he was to hear that he was a wizard, that he refused my company on a trip to Diagon Alley, and that I, in turn, warned him against continued thievery when he arrived at school.
"Well, the start of the school year arrived and with it came Tom Riddle, a quiet oy in his secondhand roes, who lined up with the other first years to e sorted. He was placed in Slytherin House almost the moment that the Sorting Hat touched his head," continued Dumledore, waving his lackened hand toward the shelf over his head where the Sorting Hat sat, ancient and unmoving. "How soon Riddle learned that the famous founder of the House could talk to snakes, I do not know -- perhaps that very evening. The knowledge can only have excited him and increased his sense of self-importance.
"However, if he was frightening or impressing fellow Slytherins with displays of Parseltongue in their common room, no hint of it reached the staff. He showed no sign of outward arrogance or aggression at all. As an unusually talented and very good-looking orphan, he naturally drew attention and sympathy from the staff almost from the moment of his arrival. He seemed police, quiet, and thirsty for knowledge. Nearly all were most favoraly impressed y him."
"Didnt you tell them, sir, what hed een like when you met him at the orphanage?" asked Harry.
"No, I did not. Though he had shown no hint of remorse, it was possile that he felt sorry for how he had ehaved efore and was resolved to turn over a fresh leaf. I chose to give him that chance."
Dumledore paused and looked inquiringly at Harry, who had opened his mouth to speak. Here, again, was Dumledores tendency to trust people in spite of overwhelming evidence that they did not deserve it! But then Harry rememered something. . . .
"But you didnt really trust him, sir, did you? He told me . . . the Riddle who came out of that diary said, Dumledore never seemed to like me as much as the other teachers did."
"Let us say that I did not take it for granted that he was trustworthy," said Dumledore. "I had, as I have already indicated, resolved to keep a close eye upon him, and so I did. I cannot pretend that I gleaned a great deal from my oservations at first. He was very guarded with me; he felt, I am sure, that in the thrill of discovering his true identity he had told me a little too much. He was careful never to reveal as much again, ut he could not take ack what he had let slip in his excitement, nor what Mrs. Cole had confided in me. However, he had the sense never to try and charm me as he charmed so many of my colleagues.
"As he moved up the school, he gathered aout him a group of dedicated friends; I call them that, for want of a etter term, although as I have already indicated, Riddle undoutedly felt no affection for any of them. This group
had a kind of dark glamour within the castle. They were a motley collection; a mixture of the weak seeking protection, the amitious seeking some shared glory, and the thuggish gravitating toward a leader who could show them more refined forms of cruelty. In other words, they were the forerunners of the Death Eaters, and indeed some of them ecame the first Death Eaters after leaving Hogwarts.
"Rigidly controlled y Riddle, they were never detected in open wrongdoing, although their seven years at Hogwarts were marked y a numer of nasty incidents to which they were never satisfactorily linked, the most serious of which was, of course, the opening of the Chamer of Secrets, which resulted in the death of a girl. As you know, Hagrid was wrongly accused of that crime.
"I have not een ale to find many memories of Riddle at Hogwarts," said Dumledore, placing his withered hand on the Pensieve. "Few who knew him then are prepared to talk aout him; they are too terrified. What I know, I found out after he had left Hogwarts, after much painstaking effort, after tracing those few who could e tricked into speaking, after searching old records and questioning Muggle and wizard witnesses alike.
"Those whom I could persuade to talk told me that Riddle was osessed with his parentage. This is understandale, of course; he had grown up in an orphanage and naturally wished to know how he came to e there. It seems that he searched in vain for some trace of Tom Riddle senior on the shields in the trophy room, on the lists of prefects in the old school records, even in the ooks of Wizarding history. Finally he was forced to accept that his
father had never set foot in Hogwarts. I elieve that it was then that he dropped the name forever, assumed the identity of Lord Volde-mort, and egan his investigations into his previously despised mothers family -- the woman whom, you will rememer, he had thought could not e a witch if she had succumed to the shameful human weakness of death.
"All he had to go upon was the single name Marvolo, which he knew from those who ran the orphanage had een his mothers fathers name. Finally, after painstaking research, through old ooks of Wizarding families, he discovered the existence of Slytherins surviving line. In the summer of his sixteenth year, he left the orphanage to which he returned annually and set off to find his Gaunt relatives. And now, Harry, if you will stand ..." :
Dumledore rose, and Harry saw that he was again holding a. small crystal ottle filled with swirling, pearly memory.
"I was very lucky to collect this," he said, as he poured the gleaming mass into the Pensieve. "As you will understand when we have experienced it. Shall we?"
Harry stepped up to the stone asin and owed oediently until his face sank through the surface of the memory; he felt the familiar sensation of falling through nothingness and then landed upon a dirty stone floor in almost total darkness.
It took him several seconds to recognize the place, y which time Dumledore had landed eside him. The Gaunts house was now more
indescrialy filthy than anywhere Harry had ever seen. The ceiling was thick with cowes, the floor coated in grime; moldy and rotting food lay upon the tale amidst a mass of crusted pots. The only light came from a single guttering candle placed at the feet of a man with hair and eard so overgrown Harry could see neither eyes nor mouth. He was slumped in an armchair y the fire, and Harry wondered for a moment whether he was dead. But
then there came a loud knock on the door and the man jerked awake, raising a wand in his right hand and a short knife in his left.
The door creaked open. There on the threshold, holding an old-fashioned lamp, stood a oy Harry recognized at once: tall, pale, dark-haired, and handsome -- the teenage Voldemort.
Voldemorts eyes moved slowly around the hovel and then found the man in the armchair. For a few seconds they looked at each other, then the man staggered upright, the many empty ottles at his feet clattering and tinkling across the floor.
"YOU!" he ellowed. "YOU!"
And he hurtled drunkenly at Riddle, wand and knife held aloft.
"Stop."
Riddle spoke in Parseltongue. The man skidded into the tale, sending moldy pots crashing to the floor. He stared at Riddle. There was a long silence while they contemplated each other. The man roke it.
"You speak it?"
"Yes, I speak it," said Riddle. He moved forward into the room, allowing the door to swing shut ehind him. Harry could not help ut feel a resentful admiration for Voldemorts complete lack of fear. His race merely expressed disgust and, perhaps, disappointment.
"Where is Marvolo?" he asked.
"Dead," said the other. "Died years ago, didnt he?"
Riddle frowned.
"Who are you, then?"
"I’m Morfin, aint I?"
"Marvolos son?"
"Course I am, then..." • ,, .
Morfin pushed the hair out of his dirty face, the etter to see Riddle, and Harry saw that he wore Marvolos lack-stoned ring on his right hand.
"I thought you was that Muggle," whispered Morfin. "You look mighty like that Muggle."
"What Muggle?" said Riddle sharply.
"That Muggle what my sister took a fancy to, that Muggle what lives in the ig house over the way," said Morfin, and he spat unexpectedly upon the floor etween them. "You look right like him. Riddle. But hes older now, in e? Hes oldern you, now I think on it. ..."
Morfin looked slightly dazed and swayed a little, still clutching the edge of the tale for support. "He come ack, see," he added stupidly.
Voldemort was gazing at Morfin as though appraising his possiilities. Now he moved a little closer and said, "Riddle came ack?"
"Ar, he left her, and serve her right, marrying filth!" said Morfin, spitting on the floor again. "Roed us, mind, efore she ran off. , Wheres the locket, eh, wheres Slytherins locket?"
Voldemort did not answer. Morfin was working himself into a rage again; he randished his knife and shouted, "Dishonored us, , she did, that little slut! And whore you, coming here and asking questions aout all that? Its over, innit. . . . Its over. ..."
He looked away, staggering slightly, and Voldemort moved forward. As he did so, an unnatural darkness fell, extinguishing Voldemorts lamp and Morfins candle, extinguishing everything. . . . Dumledores fingers closed tightly around Harrys arm and they were soaring ack into the present again. The soft golden light in Dumledores office seemed to dazzle Harrys eyes after that impenetrale darkness.
"Is that all?" said Harry at once. "Why did it go dark, what happened?"
"Because Morfin could not rememer anything from that point onward," said Dumledore, gesturing Harry ack into his seat. "When he awoke next morning, he was lying on the floor, quite alone. Marvolos ring had gone.
"Meanwhile, in the village of Little Hangleton, a maid was running along the High Street, screaming that there were three odies lying in the drawing room of the ig house: Tom Riddle Senior and his mother and father.
"The Muggle authorities were perplexed. As far as I am aware, they do not know to this day how the Riddles died, for the Avadu Kedavra curse does not usually leave any sign of damage. . . . The exception sits efore me," Dumledore added, with a nod to Harrys scar. "The Ministry, on the other hand, knew at once that this was a wizards murder. They also knew that a convicted Muggle-hater lived across the valley from the Riddle house, a Muggle-hater who had already een imprisoned once for attacking one of the murdered people.
"So the Ministry called upon Morfin. They did not need to question him, to use Veritaserum or Legilimency. He admitted to the murder on the spot, giving details only the murderer could know. He was proud, he said, to have killed the Muggles, had een awaiting his chance all these years. He handed over his wand, which was proved at once to have een used to kill the Riddles. And he permitted himself to e led off to Azkaan without a fight.
All that distured him was the fact that his fathers ring had disappeared. Hell kill me for losing it, he told his captors over and over again. Hell kill me for losing his ring. And that, apparently, was all he ever said again. He lived out the remainder of his life in Azkaan, lamenting the loss of Marvolos last heirloom, and is uried eside the prison, alongside the other poor souls who have expired within its walls."
"So Voldemort stole Morfins wand and used it?" said Harry, sitting up straight.
"Thats right," said Dumledore. "We have no memories to show us this, ut I think we can e fairly sure what happened. Voldemort Stupefied his uncle, took his wand, and proceeded across the valley to the ig house over the way. There he murdered the Muggle man who had aandoned his witch mother, and, for good measure, his Muggle grandparents, thus oliterating the last of the unworthy Riddle line and revenging himself upon the father who never wanted him. Then he returned to the Gaunt hovel, performed the complex it of magic that would implant a false memory in his uncles mind, laid Morfins wand eside its unconscious owner, pocketed the ancient ring he wore, and departed."
"And Morfin never realized he hadnt done it?"
"Never," said Dumledore. "He gave, as I say, a full and oastful confession."
"But he had this real memory in him all the time!" "Yes, ut it took a great deal of skilled Legilimency to coax it out of him," said Dumledore, "and why should anyody delve further into Morfins mind when he had already confessed to the crime? However, I was ale to secure a visit to Morfin in the last weeks of his life, y which time I was attempting to discover as much as I could aout Voldemorts past. I extracted this memory with difficulty. When I saw what it contained, I attempted to use it to secure Morfins release from Azkaan. Before the Ministry reached their decision, however, Morfin had died."
"But how come the Ministry didnt realize that Voldemort had done all that to Morfin?" Harry asked angrily "He was underage at the time, wasnt he? I thought they could detect underage magic!" "You are quite right -- they can detect magic, ut not the perpetrator: You will rememer that you were lamed y the Ministry for the Hover Charm that was, in fact, cast y --"
"Doy," growled Harry; this injustice still rankled. "So if youre underage and you do magic inside an adult witch or wizards house, the Ministry wont know?"
"They will certainly e unale to tell who performed the magic," said Dumledore, smiling slightly at the look of great indignation on Harrys face. "They rely on witch and wizard parents to enforce their offsprings oedience while within their walls."
"Well, thats ruish," snapped Harry. "Look what happened here, look what happened to Morfin!"
"I agree," said Dumledore. "Whatever Morfin was, he did not deserve to die as he did, lamed for murders he had not committed. But it is getting late, and I want you to see this other memory efore we part. ..."
Dumledore took from an inside pocket another crystal phial and Harry fell silent at once, rememering that Dumledore had said it was the most important one he had collected. Harry noticed that the contents proved difficult to empty into the Pensieve, as though they had congealed slightly; did memories go ad?
"This will not take long," said Dumledore, when he had finally emptied the phial. "We shall e ack efore you know it. Once more into the Pensieve, then . . ."
And Harry fell again through the silver surface, landing this time right in front of a man he recognized at once.
It was a much younger Horace Slughorn. Harry was so used to him ald that he found the sight of Slughorn with thick, shiny, straw-colored hair
quite disconcerting; it looked as though he had had his head thatched, though there was already a shiny Galleon-sized ald patch on his crown. His mustache, less massive than it was these days, was gingery-lond. He was not quite as rotund as the Slughorn Harry knew, though the golden uttons on his richly emroidered waistcoat were taking a fair amount of strain. His little feet resting upon a velvet pouffe, he was sitting well ack in a comfortale winged armchair, one hand grasping a small glass of wine, the other searching through a ox of crystalized pineapple.
Harry looked around as Dumledore appeared eside him and saw that they were standing in Slughorns office. Haifa dozen oys were sitting around Slughorn, all on harder or lower seats than his, and all in their mid-teens. Harry recognized Voldemort at once. His was the most handsome face and he looked the most relaxed of all the oys. His right hand lay negligently upon the arm of his chair; with a jolt, Harry saw that he was wearing Marvolos gold-and-lack ring; he had already killed his father.
"Sir, is it true that Professor Merrythought is retiring?" he asked.
"Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldnt tell you," said Slughorn, wagging a reproving, sugar-covered finger at Riddle, though ruining the effect slightly y winking. "I must say, Id like to know where you get your information, oy, more knowledgeale than half the staff, you are."
Riddle smiled; the other oys laughed and cast him admiring looks.
"What with your uncanny aility to know things you shouldn’t, and your careful flattery of the people who matter -- thank you fm the pineapple, y the way, youre quite right, it is my favorite -- "
As several of the oys tittered, something very odd happened. The whole room was suddenly filled with a thick white fog, so that Harry could see nothing ut the face of Dumledore, who was standing eside him. Then Slughorns voice rang out through the mist, unnaturally loudly, "Youll go wrong, oy, mark my words. "
The fog cleared as suddenly as it had appeared and yet noody made any allusion to it, nor did anyody look as though anything unusual had just happened. Bewildered, Harry looked around as a small golden clock standing upon Slughorns desk chimed eleven oclock.
"Good gracious, is it that time already?" said Slughorn. "Youd etter get going, oys, or well all e in troule. Lestrange, I want your essay y tomorrow or its detention. Same goes for you, Avery."
Slughorn pulled himself out of his armchair and carried his empty glass over to his desk as the oys filed out. Voldemort, however, stayed ehind. Harry could tell he had dawdled delierately, wanting to e last in the room with Slughorn.
"Look sharp, Tom," said Slughorn, turning around and finding him still present. "You dont want to e caught out of ed out of hours, and you a prefect..."
"Sir, I wanted to ask you something."
"Ask away, then, moy, ask away...."
"Sir, I wondered what you know aout. . . aout Horcruxes?"
And it happened all over again: The dense fog filled the room so that Harry could not see Slughorn or Voldemort at all; only Dumledore, smiling serenely eside him. Then Slughorns voice oomed out again, just as it had done efore.
"I dont know anything aout Horcruxes and I wouldnt tell you if I did! Now get out of here at once and don’t let me catch you mentioning them again!"
"Well, thats that," said Dumledore placidly eside Harry.
"Time to go."
And Harrys feet left the floor to fall, seconds later, ack onto the
rug in front of Dumledores desk.
"Thats all there is?" said Harry lankly.
Dumledore had said that this was the most important memory of all, ut he could not see what was so significant aout it. Admittedly the fog, and the fact that noody seemed to have noticed it, was odd, ut other than that nothing seemed to have happened except that Voldemort had asked a question and failed to get an answer.
"As you might have noticed," said Dumledore, reseating himself ehind his desk, "that memory has een tampered with."
"Tampered with?" repeated Harry, sitting ack down too.
"Certainly," said Dumledore. "Professor Slughorn has meddled with his own recollections."
"But why would he do that?"
"Because, I think, he is ashamed of what he rememers," said Dumledore. "He has tried to rework the memory to show himself in a etter light, oliterating those parts which he does not wish me to see. It is, as you will have noticed, very crudely done, and that is all to the good, for it shows that the true memory is still there eneath the alterations.
"And so, for the first time, I am giving you homework, Harry. It will e your jo to persuade Professor Slughorn to divulge the real memory, which will undoutedly e our most crucial piece of information of all."
Harry stared at him.
"But surely, sir," he said, keeping his voice as respectful as possile, "you dont need me -- you could use Legilimency ... or Veritaserum. ..."
"Professor Slughorn is an extremely ale wizard who will e expecting oth," said Dumledore. "He is much more accomplished at Occlumency than poor Morfin Gaunt, and I would e astonished if he has not carried an antidote to Veritaserum with him ever since I coerced him into giving me this travesty of a recollection.
"No, I think it would e foolish to attempt to wrest the truth from Professor Slughorn y force, and might do much more harm than good; I do not wish him to leave Hogwarts. However, he has his weaknesses like the rest of us, and I elieve that you are the one person who might e ale to penetrate his defenses. It is most important that we secure the true memory, Harry. . . . How important, we will only know when we have seen the real thing. So, good luck . . . and good night."
A little taken aack y the arupt dismissal, Harry got to his feet quickly. "Good night, sir."
As he closed the study door ehind him, he distinctly heard Phineas Nigellus say, "I cant see why the oy should e ale to do it etter than you, Dumledore."
"I wouldnt expect you to, Phineas," replied Dumledore, and Fawkes gave another low, musical cry.

Chapter 18: Birthday Surprises
The next day Harry confided in oth Ron and Hermione the task that Dumledore had set him, though separately, for Hermione still refused to remain in Rons presence longer than it took to give him a contemptuous look.
Ron thought that Harry was unlikely to have any troule with Slughorn at all.
He loves you, he said over reakfast, waving an airy forkful of fried egg. Wont refuse you anything, will he? Not his little Potions Prince. Just hang ack after class this afternoon and ask him.
Hermione, however, took a gloomier view.
He must e determined to hide what really happened if Dumledore couldnt get it out of him, she said in a low voice, as they stood in the deserted, snowy courtyard at reak. Horcruxes ... Horcruxes ... Ive never even heard of them ...
You havent?
Harry was disappointed; he had hoped that Hermione might have een ale to give him a clue as to what Horcruxes were.
They must e really advanced Dark magic, or why would Voldemort have wanted to know aout them? I think its going to e difficult to get the information, Harry, youll have to e very careful aout how you approach Slughorn, think out a strategy ..."
Ron reckons 1 should just hang ack after Potions this afternoon ...
Oh, well, if Won-Won thinks that, youd etter do it, she said, flaring up at once. After all, when has Won-Wons judgement ever een faulty?
Hermione, cant you --
No! she said angrily, and stormed away, leaving Harry alone and ankle-deep in snow.
Potions lessons were uncomfortale enough these days, seeing as Harry, Ron and Hermione had to share a desk. Today, Hermione moved her cauldron around the tale so that she was close to Ernie, and ignored oth Harry and Ron.
Whatve you done? Ron muttered to Harry, looking at Hermiones haughty profile.
But efore Harry could answer, Slughorn was calling for silence from the front of the room.
Settle down, settle down, please! Quickly, now, lots of work to get through this afternoon! Golpalotts Third Law ... who can tell me -? But Miss Granger can, of course!
Hermione recited at top speed: Golpalotts-Third-Law- states-that-the-antidote-for-a-lended-poison-will-e-equal-to- more-than-the-sum-of-the-antidotes-for-each-of-the-separale- components.
Precisely! eamed Slughorn. Ten points for Gryffindor! Now, if we accept Golpalotts Third Law as true ..."
Harry was going to have to take Slughorns word for it that Golpalotts Third Law was true, ecause he had not under-stood any of it. Noody apart from Hermione seemed to e following what Slughorn said next, either.
... which means, of course, that assuming we have achieved correct identification of the potions ingredients y Scarpins Revelaspell, our primary aim is not the relatively simple one of selecting antidotes to those ingredients in a
of themselves, ut to find that added component which will, y an almost alchemical process, transform these disparate elements -
Ron was sitting eside Harry with his mouth half-open, doodling asently on his new copy of Advanced Potion-Making. Ron kept forgetting that he could no longer rely on Hermione to help him out of troule when he failed to grasp what was going on.
... and so, finished Slughorn, I want each of you to come and take one of these phials from my desk. You are to create an antidote for the poison within it efore the end of the lesson. Good luck, and dont forget your protective gloves!
Hermione had left her stool and was halfway towards Siughorns desk efore the rest of the class had realised it was time to move, and y the time Harry, Ron and Ernie returned to the tale, she had already tipped the contents of her phial into her cauldron and was kindling a fire underneath it.
its a shame that the Prince wont e ale to help you much with this, Harry, she said rightly as she straightened up. You have to understand the principles involved this time. No short cuts or cheats!
Annoyed, Harry uncorked the poison he had taken from Siughorns desk, which was a garish shade of pink, tipped it into his cauldron and lit a fire underneath it. He did not have the faintest idea what he was supposed to do next. He glanced at Ron, who was now standing there looking rather gormless, having copied everything Harry had done.
You sure the Prince hasnt got any tips? Ron muttered to Harry.
Harry pulled out his trusty copy of Advanced Potion-Making and turned to the chapter on Antidotes. There was Golpalotts Third Law, stated word for word as Hermione had recited it, ut not a single illuminating note in the
Princes hand to explain what it meant. Apparently the Prince, like Hermione, had had no difficulty understanding it.
Nothing, said Harry gloomily.
Hermione was now waving her wand enthusiastically over her cauldron. Unfortunately, they could not copy the spell she was doing ecause she was now so good at non-veral incan-tations that she did not need to say the words aloud. Ernie Macmillan, however, was muttering, Specialis revelio! over his cauldron, which sounded impressive, so Harry and Ron hastened to imitate him.
It took Harry only five minutes to realise that his reputa-tion as the est potion-maker in the class was crashing around his ears. Slughorn had peered hopefully into his cauldron on his first circuit of the dungeon, preparing to exclaim in delight as he usually did, and instead had with-drawn his head hastily, coughing, as the smell of ad eggs overwhelmed him. Hermiones expression could not have een any smugger; she had loathed eing out-performed in every Potions class. She was now decanting the mysteriously separated ingredients of her poison into ten different crystal phials. More to avoid watching this irritating sight than any-thing else, Harry ent over the Half-Blood Princes ook and turned a few pages with unnecessary force.
And there it was, scrawled right across a long list of antidotes.
Just shove a ezoar down their throats.
Harry stared at these words for a moment. Hadnt he once, long ago, heard of ezoars? Hadnt Snape mentioned them in their first ever Potions lesson? A stone taken from the stomach of a goat, which will protect from most poisons.
It was not an answer to the Golpalott prolem, and had Snape still een their teacher, Harry would not have dared do it, ut this was a moment for desperate measures. He hastened towards the store cupoard and rummaged within it, pushing aside unicorn horns and tangles of dried hers until he found, at the very ack, a small card ox on which had een scriled the word Bezoars.
He opened the ox just as Slughorn called, Two minutes left, everyone! Inside were half a dozen shrivelled rown ojects, looking more like dried-up kidneys than real stones. Harry seized one, put the ox ack in the cupoard and hurried ack to his cauldron.
Times ... UP! called Slughorn genially. Well, lets see how youve done! Blaise ... what have you got for me?
Slowly, Slughorn moved around the room, examining the various antidotes. Noody had finished the task, although Hermione was trying to cram a few more ingredients into her ottle efore Slughorn reached her. Ron had given up com-pletely, and was merely trying to avoid reathing in the putrid fumes issuing from his cauldron. Harry stood there waiting, the ezoar clutched in a slightly sweaty hand.
Slughorn reached their tale last. He sniffed Ernies potion and passed on to Rons with a grimace. He did not linger over Rons cauldron, ut acked away swiftly, retching slightly.
And you, Harry, he said. What have you got to show me?
Harry held out his hand, the ezoar sitting on his palm.
Slughorn looked down at it for a full ten seconds. Harry wondered, for a moment, whether he was going to shout at him. Then he threw ack his head and roared with laughter.
Youve got a nerve, oy! he oomed, taking the ezoar and holding it up so that the class could see it. Oh, youre like your mother ... well, 1 cant fault you ... a ezoar would certainly act as an antidote to all these potions!
Hermione, who was sweaty-faced and had soot on her nose, looked livid. Her half-finished antidote, comprising fifty-two ingredients including a chunk of her own hair,
uled sluggishly ehind Slughorn, who had eyes for noody ut Harry.
And you thought of a ezoar all y yourself, did you, Harry? she asked through gritted teeth.
Thats the individual spirit a real potion-maker needs! said Slughorn happily, efore Harry could reply. Just like his mother, she had the same
intuitive grasp of potion-making, its undoutedly from Lily he gets it ... yes, Harry, yes, if youve got a ezoar to hand, of course that would do the trick ... although as they dont work on everything, and are pretty rare, its still worth knowing how to mix antidotes ...
The only person in the room looking angrier than Hermione was Malfoy, who, Harry was pleased to see, had spilled some-thing that looked like cat sick over himself. Before either of them could express their fury that Harry had come top of the class y not doing any work, however, the ell rang.
Time to pack up! said Slughorn. And an extra ten points to Gryffindor for sheer cheek!
Still chuckling, he waddled ack to his desk at the front of the dungeon.
Harry dawdled ehind, taking an inordinate amount of time to do up his ag. Neither Ron nor Hermione wished him luck as they left; oth looked rather annoyed. At last Harry and Slughorn were the only two left in the room.
Come on, now, Harry, youll e late for your next lesson, said Slughorn affaly, snapping the gold clasps shut on his dragonskin riefcase.
Sir, said Harry, reminding himself irresistily of Voldemort, 1 wanted to ask you something.
Ask away, then, my dear oy, ask away ..."
Sir, 1 wondered what you know aout ... aout Horcruxes?
Slughorn froze. His round face seemed to sink in upon itself. He licked his lips and said hoarsely, What did you say? I asked whether you know anything aout Horcruxes, sir. You see -
Dumledore put you up to this, whispered Slughorn.
His voice had changed completely. It was not genial any more, ut shocked, terrified. He fumled in his reast pocket and pulled out a handkerchief, mopping his sweating row.
Dumledores shown you that - that memory, said Slughorn. Well? Hasnt he?
Yes, said Harry, deciding on the spot that it was est not to lie.
Yes, of course, said Slughorn quietly, still daing at his white face. Of course ... well, if youve seen that memory, Harry, youll know that I dont know anything - anything -he repeated the word forcefully - aout Horcruxes.
He seized his dragonskin riefcase, stuffed his handkerchief ack into his pocket and marched to the dungeon door.
Sir, said Harry desperately, I just thought there might e a it more to the memory -
Did you? said Slughorn. Then you were wrong, werent you? WRONG!
He ellowed the last word and, efore Harry could say another word, slammed the dungeon door ehind him.
Neither Ron nor Hermione was at all sympathetic when Harry told them of this disastrous interview Hermione was still seething at the way Harry had triumphed without doing the work properly. Ron was resentful that Harry hadnt slipped him a ezoar, too.
It wouldve just looked stupid if wed oth done it! said Harry irritaly. Look, I had to try and soften him up so I could ask him aout Voldemort, didnt I? Oh, will you gel a grip! he added in exasperation, as Ron winced at the sound of the name.
Infuriated y his failure and y Ron and Hermiones atti-
tudes, Harry rooded for the next few days over what to do next aout Slughorn. He decided that, for the time eing, he would let Slughorn think that he had forgotten all aout Horcruxes; it was surely est to lull him into a false sense of security efore returning to the attack.
When Harry did noi question Slughorn again, the Potions master reverted to his usual affectionate treatment of him, and appeared to have put the
matter from his mind. Harry awaited an invitation to one of his little evening parties, determined to accept this time, even if he had to reschedule Quidditch prac- tice. Unfortunately, however, no such invitation arrived. Harry checked with Hermione and Ginny: neither of them had received an invitation and nor, as far as they knew, had anyody else. Harry could not help wondering whether this meant that Slughorn was not quite as forgetful as he appeared, simply determined to give Harry no additional opportunities to question him.
Meanwhile, the Hogwarts lirary had failed Hermione for the first lime in living memory. She was so shocked, she even forgot that she was annoyed at Harry for his trick with the ezoar,
I havent found one single explanation of what Horcruxes do!" she told him. Not a single one! Ive een right through the restricted section and even in the most horrile ooks, where they tell you how to rew the most gruesome potions -nothing! All I could find was this, in the introduciion to Magick Mostc Evilc -- listen -- "of the Horcrux, wickedest of magical inventions, we shall not speak nor give direction" ... 1 mean, why mention it, then? she said impatiently, slamming the old ook shut; it let out a ghostly wail. Oh, shut up, she snapped, stuffing it ack into her ag. I asked whether you know anything aout Horcruxes, sir. You see -
Dumledore put you up to this, whispered Slughorn,
His voice had changed completely. It was not genial any more, ut shocked, terrified. He fumled in his reast pocket and pulled out a handkerchief, mopping his sweating row.
Dumledores shown you that -- that memory, said Slughorn. Well? Hasnt he?
Yes, said Harry, deciding on the spot that it was est not to lie.
Yes, of course, said Slughorn quietly, still daing at his white face. Of course ... well, if youve seen that memory, Harry, youll know that I dont know anything - anything -he repeated the word forcefully - aout Horcruxes.
He seized his dragonskin riefcase, stuffed his handkerchief ack into his pocket and marched to the dungeon door.
Sir, said Harry desperately, 1 just thought there might e a
Did you? said Slughorn. Then you were wrong, werent you? WRONG!
He ellowed the last word and, efore Harry could say another word, slammed the dungeon door ehind him.
Neither Ron nor Hermione was at all sympathetic when Harry told them of this disastrous interview. Hermione was still seething at the way Harry
had triumphed without doing the work properly. Ron was resentful that Harry hadnt slipped him a ezoar, too.
It wouldve just looked stupid if wed oth done it! said Harry irritaly. Look, 1 had to try and soften him up so 1 could ask him aout Voldemort, didnt I? Oh, will you get a grip! he added in exasperation, as Ron winced at the sound of
Infuriated y his failure and y Ron and Hermiones atti-
tudes, Harry rooded for the next few days over what to do next aout Slughorn. He decided that, for the time eing, he would let Slughorn think that he had forgotten all aout Horcruxes; it was surely est to lull him into a false sense of security efore returning to the attack.
When Harry did not question Slughorn again, the Potions master reverted to his usual affectionate treatment of him, and appeared to have put the matter from his mind. Harry awaited an invitation to one of his little evening parties, determined to accept this time, even if he had to reschedule Quidditch prac-tice. Unfortunately, however, no such invitation arrived. Harry checked with Hermione and Ginny: neither of them had received an invitation and nor, as far as they knew, had anyody else. Harry could not help wondering whether this meant that Slughorn was not quite as forgetful as he appeared, simply determined to give Harry no additional opportunities to question him.
Meanwhile, the Hogwarts lirary had failed Hermione for the first time in living memory. She was so shocked, she even forgot that she was annoyed at Harry for his trick with the ezoar.
I havent found one single explanation of what Horcruxes do! she told him. Not a single one! Ive een right through the restricted section and even in the most horrile ooks, where they tell you how to rew the most gruesome potions -nothing! All I could find was this, in the introduction to Magick Moste Evile - listen - "of the Horcrux, wickedest of magical inventions, we shall not speak nor give direction" ... I mean, why mention it, then? she said impatiently, slamming the old ook shut; it let out a ghostly wail. Oh, shut up, she snapped, stuffing it ack into her ag.
The snow melted around the school as Feruary arrived, to e replaced y cold, dreary wetness. Purplish-grey clouds hung low over the castle and a constant fall of chilly rain made the lawns slippery and muddy. The upshot of this was that the sixth-years first Apparition lesson, which was sched-uled for a Saturday morning so that no normal lessons would e missed, took place in the Great Hall instead of in the grounds.
When Harry and Hermione arrived in the Hall (Ron had come down with Lavender) they found that the tales had disappeared. Rain lashed against the high windows and the enchanted ceiling swirled darkly aove them as they assemled in front of Professors McGonagall, Snape, Flitwick and Sprout - the Heads of House - and a small wizard whom Harry took to e the Apparition Instructor from the Ministry. He was oddly colourless, with transparent eyelashes, wispy hair and an insustantial air, as though a single
gust of wind might low him away. Harry wondered whether constant dis-appearances and reappearances had somehow diminished his sustance, or whether this frail uild was ideal for anyone wishing to vanish.
Good morning, said the Ministry wizard, when all the stu-dents had arrived and the Heads of House had called for quiet. My name is Wilkie Twycross and I shall e your Ministry-Apparition Instructor for the next twelve weeks. 1 hope to e ale to prepare you for your Apparition test in this time -
Malfoy, e quiet and pay attention! arked Professor McGonagall.
Everyody looked round. Malfoy had flushed a dull pink; he looked furious as he stepped away from Crae, with whom he appeared to have een having a whispered argu-ment. Harry glanced quickly at Snape, who also looked annoyed, though Harry strongly suspected that this was less ecause of Malfoys rudeness than the fact that McGonagall had reprimanded one of his house.
- y which time, many of you may e ready to take your test, Twycross continued, as though there had een no interruption.
As you may know, it is usually impossile to Apparate or Disapparate within Hogwarts. The Headmaster has lifted this enchantment, purely within the Great Hall, for one hour, so as to enale you to practise. May I emphasise that you will not e ale to Apparate outside the walls of this Hall, and that you would e unwise to try.
I would like each of you to place yourselves now so that you have a clear five feet of space in front of you.
There was a great scramiing and jostling as people separ-ated, anged into each other, and ordered others out of their space. The Heads of House moved among the students, marshalling them into position and reaking up arguments.
Harry, where are you going? 1 demanded Hermione.
But Harry did not answer; he was moving quickly through the crowd, past the place where Professor Flitwick was making squeaky attempts to position a few Ravenclaws, all of whom wanted to e near the front, past Professor Sprout, who was chivvying the Hufflepuffs into line, until, y dodging around Ernie Macmillan, he managed to position himself right at the ack of the crowd, directly ehind Malfoy, who was taking advantage of the general upheaval to continue his argument with Crae, standing five feet away and looking mutinous.
I dont know how much longer, all right? Malfoy shot at him, olivious to Harry standing right ehind him. Its taking longer than I thought it would.
Crae opened his mouth, ut Malfoy appeared to second-guess what he was going to say.
Look, its none of your usiness what Im doing, Crae, you and Goyle just do as youre told and keep a lookout!
! tell my friends what Im up to, if I want them to keep a lookout for me," Harry said, just loud enough for Malfoy to hear him.
Malfoy spun round on the spot, his hand flying to his wand, ut at thai precise moment the four Heads of House shouted, Quiet! and silence fell again. Malfoy turned slowly to face the front.
Thank you, said Twycross. :Now then ...
He waved his wand. Old-fashioned wooden hoops instantly appeared on the floor in from of every student.
The important things to rememer when Apparating are the three Ds! said Twycross. Destination, Determination, Delieration!
Step one: fix your mind firmly upon the desired destin-ation, said Twycross. In this case, the interior of your hoop. Kindly concentrate upon that destination now.
Everyody looked around furtively, to check that everyone else was staring into their hoop, then hastily did as they were told. Harry gazed at the circular patch of dusty floor enclosed y his hoop and tried hard to think of nothing else. This proved impossile, as he couldnt stop puzzling over what Malfoy was doing that needed lookouts.
"Step two, said Twycross, focus your determination to occupy the visualised space! Let your yearning to enter it flood from your mind to every particle of your ody!
Harry glanced around surreptitiously. A little way to his left, Ernie Macmillan was contemplating his hoop so hard that his face had turned pink; it looked as though he was straining to lay a Quaffle-sized egg. Harry it ack a laugh and hastily returned his gaze to his own hoop.
Step three, called Twycross, and only when 1 give the com-mand ... lum on the spot, feeiing your way into nothingness, moving with delieration 1. On my command, now ... one- 1
Harry glanced around again; lots of people were looking positively alarmed at eing asked to Apparate so quickly.
Harry tried to fix his thoughts on his hoop again; he had already forgotten what the three Ds stood for.
: - THREE!
Harry spun on the spot, lost his alance and nearly fell over. He was not the only one. The whole Hall was suddenly full of staggering people; Neville was flat on his ack; Ernie Macmillan, on the other hand, had done a kind of pirouet-ting leap into his hoop and looked momentarily thrilled, until he caught sight of Dean Thomas roaring with laughter at him.
Never mind, never mind, said Twycross dryly, who did not seem to have expected anything etter. Adjust your hoops, please, and ack to your original positions ...
The second atlem.pt was no etter than the first. The third was just as ad. Not until the fourth did anything exciting happen. There was a horrile screech of pain and everyody looked around, terrified, to see Susan Bones of Hufflepuff woling in her hoop with her left leg still standing five feet away where she had started.
The Heads of House converged on her; there was a great ang and a puff of purple smoke, which cleared to reveal Susan soing, reunited with her leg ut looking horrified.
Sphnching, or the separation of random ody parts, said Wilkie Twycross dispassionately, occurs when the mind is insufficiently determined. You must concentrate continually upon your destination, and move, without hasie, ut with delieration ... thus.
Twycross stepped forwards, turned gracefully on the spot with his arms outstretched and vanished in a swirl of roes, reappearing at the ack of the Hall. Rememer the three Ds, he said, and try again ... one -two - three -
But an hour later, Susans Splinching was still ihe most interesting thing that had happened. Twycross did not seem discouraged. Fastening his cloak
at his neck, he merely said, Until next Saturday, everyody, and do not forget: Destin-ation. Determination. Delieration.
With that, he waved his wand, Vanishing the hoops, and walked out of the Hall accompanied y Professor McGonagall. Talk roke out at once as people egan moving towards the Entrance Hall.
How did you do? asked Ron, hurrying towards Harry. 1 think 1 felt something the last time I tried - a kind of tingling in my feet.
1 expect your trainers are too small, Won-Won, said a voice ehind them, and Hermione stalked past, smirking.
1 didnt feel anything, said Harry, ignoring this inter-ruption. "But 1 dont care aout that now-
What dyou mean, you dont care ... dont you want to leam to Apparate? said Ron incredulously.
Im not fussed, really. I prefer flying, said Harry, glancing over his shoulder to see where Malfoy was, and speeding up as they came into the Entrance Hall. Look, hurry up, will you, theres something I want to do ...
Perplexed, Ron followed Harry ack to Gryffindor Tower at a run. They were temporarily detained y Peeves, who had jammed a door on the fourth floor shut and was refusing to let anyone pass until they set fire to their own
pants, ut Harry and Ron simply turned ack and took one of their trusted short cuts. Within five minutes, they were climing through the portrait hole.
Are you going to tell me what were doing, then? asked Ron, panting slightly.
Up here, said Harry, and he crossed the common room and led the way through the door to the oys staircase.
Their dormitory was, as Ham had hoped, empty. He flung open his trunk and egan to rummage in it, while Ron watched impatiently.
Harry ...
Malfoys using Crae and Goyle as lookouts. He was argu-ing with Crae just now. 1 want to know ... aha.
He had found it, a folded square of apparently lank parchment, which he now smoothed out and tapped with [he tip of his wand.
I solemn!) swear that I am up to no good ... or Malfoy is,
At once, the Marauders Map appeared on the parchments surface. Here was a detailed plan of every one of the castles floors and, moving around it, the tiny, laelled lack dots that signified each of the castles occupants.
Help me find Malfoy, said Harry urgently.
He laid the map upon his ed and he and Ron leaned over it, searching.
There! said Ron, after a minute or so. Hes in the Slytherin common room, look ... with Parkinson and Zaini and Crae and Goyle ..."
Harry looked down at the map, disappointed, ut rallied almost at once.
Well, Im keeping an eye on him from now on, he said firmly. And the moment 1 see him lurking somewhere with Crae and Goyle keeping watch outside, itll e on with the old Invisiility Cloak and off to find out what hes-
He roke off as Neville entered the dormitory, ringing with him a strong smell of singed material, and egan rum-maging in his trunk for a fresh pair of pants.
Despite his determination 10 catch Malfoy out, Harry had no luck at all over the next couple of weeks. Although he consulted the map as often as he could, sometimes making unnecessary visits to the athroom etween lessons to search it, he did not once see Malfoy anywhere suspicious. Admit-tedly, he spotted Crae and Goyle moving around the castle on their own more often than usual, sometimes remaining stationary in deserted corridors, ut at these times Malfoy was not only nowhere near them, ut impossile to locate on the map at all. This was most mysterious. Harry toyed with the possiility that Malfoy was actually leaving the school grounds, ut could not see how he could e doing it, given the very high
leve! of security now operating within the castle. He could only suppose ihat he was missing Malfoy amongst the hundreds of tiny lack dots upon the map. As for the fact that Malfoy, Crae and Goyle appeared to e going their dif-ferent ways when they were usually inseparale, these things happened as people got older - Ron and Hermione, Harry reflected sadly, were living proof.
Feruary moved towards March with no change in the weather except that it ecame windy as well as wet. To general indignation, a sign went up on all common-room noticeoards that the next trip into Hogsmeade had een cancelled. Ron was furious.
It was on my irthday! he said, i was looking forward to that!
Not a ig surprise, though, is it? said Harry. Not after what happened to Katie.
She had still not returned from Si Mungos. What was more, further disappearances had een reported in the Daily Prophet, including several relatives of students at Hogwarts.
But now all Ive got to look forward to is stupid Appar-ition! said Ron grumpily. Big irthday treat ...
Three lessons on, Apparition was proving as difficult as
ever, though a few more people had managed to Splinch themselves. Frustration was running high and there was a certain amount of ill-feeling towards Wilkie Twycross and his three Ds, which had inspired a numer of nicknames for him, the politest of which were Dog-reath and Dung-head.
Happy irthday, Ron, said Harry, when they were woken on the first of March y Seamus and Dean leaving noisily for reakfast. Have a present.
He threw the package across on to Rons ed, where it joined a small pile of them that must, Harry assumed, have een delivered y house-elves in the night.
Cheers, said Ron drowsily, and as he ripped off the paper Harry got out of ed, opened his own crunk and egan rum-maging in it for the Marauders Map, which he hid after every use. He turfed out half the contents of his trunk efore he found it hiding eneath the rolled-up socks in which he was still keeping his ottle of lucky potion, Felix Felicis.
Right, he murmured, taking it ack to ed with him, tap-ping it quietly and murmuring, I solemnly swear that I am up to no good, so that Neville, who was passing the foot of his ed at the time, would not hear.
Nice one, Harry! said Ron enthusiastically, waving the new pair of Quidditch Keepers gloves Harry had given him.
No prolem, said Harry asent-mindedly, as he searched the Slytherin dormitory closely for Malfoy. Hey ... I dont think hes in his ed ...
Ron did not answer; he was too usy unwrapping presents, every now and then letting out an exclamation of pleasure.
Seriously good haul this year! he announced, holding up a heavy gold watch with odd symols around the edge and tiny moving stars instead of hands. See what Mum and Dad got me? Blimey, I think Ill come of age next year too ...
Cool, muttered Harry, sparing the watch a glance efore peering more closely at the map. Where was Malfoy? He did not seem to e at the Slytherin tale in the Great Hall, eating reakfast ... he was nowhere near Snape, who was sitting in his study ... he wasnt in any of the athrooms or in the hospital wing ...
Want one? 1 said Ron thickly, holding out a ox of Chocolate Cauldrons.
No thanks, said Harry, looking up. Malfoys gone again!
Cant have done, said Ron, stuffing a second Cauldron into his mouth as he slid out of ed to get dressed. Come on. if you dont hurry up youll have to Apparate on an empty-stomach ... might make it easier, 1 suppose ..."
Ron looked thoughtfully ai the ox of Chocolate Cauldrons, then shrugged and helped himself to a third.
Harry tapped the map with his wand, muttered, Mischief managed, though it hadnt een, and got dressed, thinking hard. There had to e an explanation for Malfoys periodic disappearances, ut he simply could not think what it could e. The est way of finding out would e to tail him, ur even with the Invisiility Cloak this was an impractical idea; he had lessons, Quidditch practice, homework and Apparition; he could not follow Malfoy around school all day wilhout his asence eing remarked upon,
Ready? he said to Ron.
He was halfway to the dormitory door when he realised that Ron had not moved, ut was leaning on his edpost, staring out of the rain-washed window with a strangely un-focused look on his face.
Ron? Breakfast.
Im not hungry,
Harry stared ai him.
I thought you just said -?
-Well, all right, Ill come down with you, sighed Ron, ut I dont want to eat.
Harry scrutinised him suspiciously.
Youve just eaten half a ox of Chocolate Cauldrons, havent you?
Its not that, Ron sighed again. You ... you wouldnt understand.
Fair enough, said Harry, aleit puzzled, as he turned to open the door.
Harry! said Ron suddenly.
What?
Harry, I cant stand it!
You cant stand what? asked Harry, now starling to feel definitely alarmed. Ron was rather pale and looked as though he was aout to e sick.
I cant stop thinking aout her! said Ron hoarsely.
Harry gaped at him. He had not expected this and was not sure he wanted to hear it. Friends they might e, ut if Ron started calling Lavender Lav-Lav, he would have to pui his foot down.
Why does that stop you having reakfast? Harry asked, trying to inject a note of common sense into the proceedings.
I dont think she knows I exist, said Ron with a desperate gesture.
She definitely knows you exist, said Harry, ewildered. She keeps snogging you, doesnt she?
Ron linked.
Who are you talking aout?
Who are you talking aout? said Harry, with an increasing sense that all reason had dropped out of the conversation.
Romilda Vane, said Ron softly, and his whole face seemed to illuminate as he said it, as though hit y a ray of purest sunlight. They stared at each other for almost a whole minute, efore Harry said, This is a joke, right? Youre joking.
T think ... Harry, 1 ihink I love her, said Ron in a strangled voice.
OK, said Harry, walking up to Ron 10 get a etter look at the glazed eyes and the pallid complexion, OK ... say that again with a straight face.
I love her, repeated Ron reathlessly. Have you seen her hair, its all lack and shiny and silky ... and her eyes? Her ig dark eyes? And her -
This is really funny and everything, said Harry impatiently, ut jokes over, all right? Drop it.
He turned to leave; he had got two steps towards the door when a crashing low hit him on the right ear. Staggering, he looked round. Rons fist was drawn right ack, his face was contorted with rage; he was aout to strike again.
Harry reacted instinctively; his wand was out of his pocket and the incantation sprang to mind without conscious thought: Le\icorpus!
Ron yelled as his heel was wrenched upwards once more; he dangled helplessly, upside-down, his roes hanging off him.
What was that for? Harry ellowed.
You insulted her, Harry! You said it was a joke! shouted Ron, who was slowly turning purple in the face as all the lood rushed to his head.
This is insane! said Harry. Whats got into -?
And then he saw the ox lying open on Rons ed and the truth hit him with the force of a stampeding troll.
Where did you get those Chocolate Cauldrons?
They were a irthday present! shouted Ron, revolving slowly in midair as he struggled to get free. 1 offered you one, didnt 1?
You just picked them up off the floor, didnt you?
Theyd fallen off my ed, all right? Let me go!
They didnt fall off your ed, you prat, dont you under-stand? They were mine, 1 chucked them out of my trunk when 1 was looking for the map. Theyre the Chocolate Cauldrons Romilda gave me efore Christmas and theyre all spiked with love potion!
But only one word of this seemed to have registered with Ron.
Romilda? he repeated. Did you say Romilda? Harry - do you know her? Can you introduce me?
Harry stared at the dangling Ron, whose face now looked tremendously hopeful, and fought a strong desire to laugh. A part of him - the part closest to his throing right ear - was quite keen on the idea of letting Ron down and watching him run amok until the effects of the potion wore off ... ut on the other hand, they were supposed to e friends, Ron had not een himself when he had attacked, and Harry- thought that he would deserve another punching if he permitted Ron to declare undying love for Romilda Vane.
Yeah, Ill introduce you, said Harry, thinking fast. Im going to let you down now, OK?
He sent Ron crashing ack to the floor (his ear did hurt quite a lot), ut Ron simply ounded to his feet again, grinning.
Shell e in Slughorns office, 1 said Harry confidently, leading the way to the door.
Why will she e in there? asked Ron anxiously, hurrying to keep up.
Oh, she has extra Potions lessons with him, said Harry, inventing wildly.
Maye 1 could ask if 1 can have them with her? said Ron eagerly.
Great idea, said Harry. Lavender was waiting eside the portrait hole, a complication Harry had not foreseen.
Youre lace, Won-Won! she pouted. Ive got you a irth-day-
Leave me alone, said Ron impatiently, Harrys going to introduce me to Romilda Vane.
And without another word to her, he pushed his way oui of the portrait hole. Harry tried to make an apologetic face to Lavender, ut it might have turned out simply amused, ecause she looked more offended than ever as the Fat Lady swung shut ehind them.
Harry had een slightly worried that Slughorn might e at reakfast, ut he answered his office door at the first knock, wearing a green velvet dressing-gown and matching nightcap and looking rather leary-eyed.
Harry, he mumled. This is very early for a call ... I generally sleep late on a Saturday ..."
Professor, Im really sorry to distur you, said Harry as quietly as possile, while Ron stood on tiptoe, attempting to see past Slughorn into his room, ut my friend Rons swallowed a love potion y mistake. You couldnt make him an antidote, could you? Id take him to Madam Pomfrey, ut were not supposed to have anything from Weasleys Wizard Wheezes and, you know ... awkward questions ...
Td have thought you could have whipped him up a remedy, Harry, an expert potioneer like you? asked Slughorn. Er, said Harry, somewhat distracted y the fact that Ron was now elowing him in the ris in an attempt to force his way into the room, well, Ive never mixed an antidote for a love potion, sir, and y the time I get it right Ron mightve done something serious -
Helpfully, Ron chose this moment to moan, I cant see her. Harry - is he hiding her?
Was this potion within date? asked Slughorn, now eyeing Ron with professional interest. They can strengthen, you know, the longer theyre kept.
That would explain a lot, panted Harry, now positively wrestling with Ron to keep him from knocking Slughorn over. Its his irthday, Professor, he added imploringly.
Oh, all right, come in, then, come in, said Slughorn, relenting. Ive got the necessary here in my ag, its not a difficult antidote ...
Ron urst through the door into Slughorns overheated, crowded study, tripped over a tasselled footstool, regained his alance y seizing Harry around the neck and muttered, She didnt see that, did she?
Shes not here yet, said Harry, watching Slughorn opening his potion kit and adding a few pinches of this and that to a small crystal ottle.
Thats good, said Ron fervently. How do I look?
Very handsome, said Slughorn smoothly, handing Ron a glass of clear liquid. Now drink that up, its a tonic for the nerves, keep you calm when she arrives, you know,
Brilliant, said Ron eagerly, and he gulped the antidote down noisily.
Harry and Slughorn watched him. For a moment, Ron eamed at them. Then, very slowly, his grin sagged and van-ished, to e replaced y an expression of utmost horror.
Back to normal, then? said Harry, grinning. Slughorn chuckled. Thanks a lot, Professor.
Dont mention it, moy, dont mention it, said Slughorn, as Ron collapsed into a neary armchair, looking devastated. Pick-me-up, thats what he needs, Slughorn continued, now-ustling over to a tale loaded with drinks. Ive got Butter-eer, Ive got wine, Ive got one last ottle of this oak-matured mead ... hmm ... meant to give that to Dumledore for
Christmas ... ah well ... he shrugged ... he cant miss what hes never had! Why dont we open it now and celerate Mr Weasleys irthday? Nothing like a fine spirit to chase away the pangs of disappointed love ...
He chortled again and Harry joined in. This was the firsi time he had found himself almost alone with Slughorn since his disastrous first attempt to extract the true memory from him. Perhaps, if he could just keep Slughorn in a good mood ... perhaps if they got through enough of the oak-matured mead ...
There you are, then, said Slughorn, handing Harry and Ron a glass of mead each, efore raising his own. Well, a very happy irthday, Ralph -
- Ron - whispered Harry.
But Ron, who did not appear to e listening to the toast, had already thrown the mead into his mouth and swallowed it.
There was one second, hardly more than a hearteat, in which Harry knew there was something terrily wrong and Slughorn, it seemed, did not.
- and may you have many more -
Ron!
Ron had dropped his glass; he half-rose from his chair and then crumpled, his extremities jerking uncontrollaly. Foam was driling from his mouth and his eyes were ulging from their sockets.
Professor! Harry ellowed. Do something]
But Slughorn seemed paralysed y shock. Ron twitched and choked: his skin was turning lue.
What - ut - spluttered Slughorn.
Harry leapt over a low tale and sprinted towards Slughorns open potion kit, pulling out jars and pouches, while the terrile sound of Rons gargling reath filled the room. Then
he found it - the shrivelled kidney-like stone Slughorn had taken from him in Potions.
He hurtled ack to Rons side, wrenched open his jaw and thrust the ezoar into his mouth. Ron gave a great shudder, a rattling gasp and his ody ecame limp and still.
Chapter 19: Elf Tails
So, all in all, not one of Rons etter irthdays?" said Fred.
It was evening; the hospital wing was quiet, the windows curtained, the lamps lit. Rons was the only occupied ed. Harry, Hermione, and Ginny were sitting around him; they had spent all day waiting outside the doule doors, trying to see inside whenever someody went in or out. Madam Pomfrey had only let them enter at eight oclock. Fred and George had arrived at ten past.
"This isnt how we imagined handing over our present," said George grimly, putting down a large wrapped gift on Rons edside cainet and sitting eside Ginny.
"Yeah, when we pictured the scene, he was conscious," said Fred.
"There we were in Hogsmeade, waiting to surprise him --" said George.
"You were in Hogsmeade?" asked Ginny, looking up.
"We were thinking of uying Zonkos," said Fred gloomily. "A Hogsmeade ranch, you know, ut a fat lot of good itll do us if you lot arent allowed out at weekends to uy our stuff anymon ... But never mind that now."
He drew up a chair eside Harry and looked at Rons pale face.
"How exactly did it happen, Harry?"
Harry retold the story he had already recounted, it felt like a hundred times to Dumledore, to McGonagall, to Madam Pomfrey, to Hermione, and to Ginny.
". . . and then I got the ezoar down his throat and his reathing eased up a it, Slughorn ran for help, McGonagall and Madam Pomfrey turned up, and they rought Ron up here. They reckon hell e all right. Madam Pomfrey says hell have to stay here a week or so ... keep taking essence of rue . . ."
"Blimey, it was lucky you thought of a ezoar," said George in a low voice.
"Lucky there was one in the room," said Harry, who kept turning cold at the thought of what would have happened if he had not een ale to lay hands on the little stone.
Hermione gave an almost inaudile sniff. She had een exceptionally quiet all day. Having hurtled, white-faced, up to Harry outside the hospital wing and demanded to know what had happened., she had taken almost no part in Harry and Ginnys osessive discussion aout how Ron had een poisoned, ut merely stood eside them, clench-jawed and frightened-looking, until ai last they had een allowed in to see him.
"Do Mum and Dad know?" Fred asked Ginny. "Theyve already seen him, they arrived an hour ago -- theyre in Dumledores office now, ut theyll e ack soon. . . ."
There was a pause while they all watched Ron mumle a little in his sleep.
"So the poison was in the drink?" said Fred quietly.
"Yes," said Harry at once; he could think of nothing else and was glad for the opportunity to start discussing it again. "Slughorn poured it out --"
"Would he have een ale to slip something into Rons glass without you seeing?"
"Proaly," said Harry, "ut why would Slughorn want to poison Ron?"
"No idea," said Fred, frowning. "You dont think he could have mixed up the glasses y mistake? Meaning to get you?"
"Why would Slughorn want to poison Harry?" asked Ginny. "I dunno," said Fred, "ut there must e loads of people whod like to poison Harry, mustnt there? The Chosen One and all that?" "So you think Slughorns a Death Eater?" said Ginny. :,
"Anythings possile," said Fred darkly. "He could e under the Imperius Curse," said George. "Or he could e innocent," said Ginny. "The poison
could have een in the ottle, in which case it was proaly meant for Slughorn himself."
"Whod want to kill Slughorn?"
"Dumledore reckons Voldemort wanted Slughorn on his side," said Harry. "Slughorn was in hiding for a year efore he came to Hogwarts. And . . ." He thought of the memory Dumledore had not yet een ale to extract from Slughorn. "And maye Voldemort wants him out of the way, maye he thinks he could e valuale to Dumledore."
"But you said Slughorn had een planning to give th.u Untie to Dumledore for Christmas," Ginny reminded him. "So the poisoner could just as easily have een after Dumledore."
"Then the poisoner didnt know Slughorn very well," said Hermione, speaking for the first time in hours and sounding as though she had a ad head cold. "Anyone who knew Slughorn would have I known there was a good chance hed keep something that tasty for himself." I
"Er-my-nee," croaked Ron unexpectedly from etween them
They all fell silent, watching him anxiously, ut after muttering incomprehensily for a moment he merely started snoring.
The dormitory doors flew open, making them all jump: Hagrid came striding toward them, his hair rain-flecked, his earskin coat flapping ehind
him, a crossow in his hand, leaving a trail of muddy dolphin-sized footprints all over the floor.
"Bin in the forest all day!" he panted. "Aragogs worse, I in readin to him -- didn get up ter dinner till jus now an then Professor Sprout told me aou Ron! How is he?"
"Not ad," said Harry. "They say hell e okay."
"No more than six visitors at a time!" said Madam Pomfrey, hurrying out of her office.
"Hagrid makes six," George pointed out.
"Oh . . . yes. .." said Madam Pomfrey, who seemed to have een counting Hagrid as several people due to his vastness. To cover her confusion, she hurried off to clear up his muddy foot prints with her wand.
"I don elieve this," said Hagrid hoarsely, shaking his great shaggy head as he stared down at Ron. "Jus don elieve it... Look at him lyin there. . . . Whod want ter hurt him, eh?"
"Thats just what we were discussing," said Harry. "We dont know."
"Someone couldn’ have a grudge against the Gryfinndor Quidditch team, could they?" said Hagrid anxiously. "Firs Katie, now Ron . . ."
"I cant see anyone trying to ump off a Quidditch team," said
I m urge.
Wood mightve done the Slytherins if he couldve got away with it," said Fred fairly.
Well, I dont think its Quidditch, ut I think theres a connection etween the attacks," said Hermione quietly
"How dyou work that out?" asked Fred.
"Well, for one thing, they oth ought to have een fatal and werent, although that was pure luck. And for another, neither the poison nor the necklace seems to have reached the person who was (supposed to e killed. Of course," she added roodingly, "that makes the person ehind this even more dangerous in a way, ecause they dont seem to care how many people they finish off In lore they actually reach their victim."
Before anyody could respond to this ominous pronouncement, tin- dormitory doors opened again and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley hurried up the ward. They had done no more than satisfy themselves that Ron would make a full recovery on their last visit to the ward; now Mrs. Weasley seized hold of Harry and hugged him very tighty. "Dumledores told us how you saved him with the ezoar," she soed. "Oh, Harry, what can we say? You saved Ginny . . . you saved Arthur , . . now youve saved Ron
"Dont e ... I didnt. . ." muttered Harry awkwardly. "Half our family does seem to owe you their lives, now I stop and think aout it," Mr. Weasley said in a constricted voice. "Well, all I can say is that it was a lucky clay for the Weasleys when Ron decided to sit in your compartment on the Hogwarts Expirv., Harry."
Harry could not think of any reply to this and was almost gl.i«l when Madam Pomfrey reminded them that there were only supposed to e six visitors around Rons ed; he and Hermione rose .h once to leave and Hagrid decided to go with them, leaving Ron with his family.
"Its terrile," growled Hagrid into his eard, as the three ol them walked ack along the corridor to the marle staircase. "Ml this new security, an kids are still gettin hurt. . . . Dumledoivs worried sick. . . . He don say much, ut I can tell. . . ."
"Hasnt he got any ideas, Hagrid?" asked Hermione desperately.
"I spect hes got hundreds of ideas, rain like his," said Hagrid. "But he doesn know who sent that necklace nor put poison in that wine, or theydve in caught, wouldn they? Wha worries me," said Hagrid, lowering his voice and glancing over his shoulder (Harry, for good measure, checked the ceiling for Peeves), "is how long Hogwarts can stay open if kids are ein attacked. Chamer o Secrets all over again, isn it? Therell e panic, more parents takin their kids outta school, an nex thing yeh know the oard o governors ..."
Hagrid stopped talking as the ghost of a long-haired woman drifted serenely past, then resumed in a hoarse whisper, ". . . the oard o governorsll e talkin aout shuttin us up fer good."
"Surely not?" said Hermione, looking worried.
"Gotta see it from their point o view," said Hagrid heavily. "I mean, its always in a it of a risk sendin a kid ter Hogwarts, hasn’ it? Yer expect accidents, don yeh, with hundreds of underage wizards all locked up tergether, ut attempted murder, thas tliffrent. Sno wonder Dumledores angry with Sn --"
Hagrid stopped in his tracks, a familiar, guilty expression on what was visile of his face aove his tangled lack eard.
"What?" said Harry quickly. "Dumledores angry with Snape?"
"I never said tha’," said Hagrid, though his look of panic could not have een a igger giveaway. "Look at the time, its gettin on fer midnight, I need ter --"
"Hagrid, why is Dumledore angry with Snape?" Harry asked loudly.
"Shhhh!" said Hagrid, looking oth nervous and angry. "Don’ shout stuff like that, Harry, dyeh wan’ me ter lose me jo? Mind, I don suppose yehd care, would yeh, not now yehve given up Care of Mag--"
"Dont try and make me feel guilty, it wont work!" said Harry forcefully. "Whats Snape done?"
"I dunno, Harry, I shouldnta heard it at all! I -- well, I was comin’ outta the forest the other evenin’ an I overheard em talking-- well, arguin’. Didnt like ter draw attention to meself, so I sorta skulked an tried not ter listen, ut it was a -- well, a heated discussion an it wasn’ easy ter lock it out."
"Well?" Harry urged him, as Hagrid shuffled his enormous feet uneasily.
"Well -- I jus heard Snape sayin’ Dumledore took too much fer granted an maye he -- Snape -- didn’ wan’ ter do it any more --"
"Do what?"
"I dunno, Harry, it sounded like Snape was feelin’ a it overworked, thas all -- anyway, Dumledore told him flat out hed agreed ter do it an that was all there was to it. Pretty firm with him. An then he said summat aou’ Snape makin investigations in his House, in Slytherin. Well, theres nothin strange aou that!" Hagrid added hastily, as Harry and Hermione exchanged looks full of meaning. "All the Heads o Houses were asked ter look inter that necklace usiness --"
"Yeah, ut Dumledores not having rows with the rest of them, is he?" said Harry.
"Look," Hagrid twisted his crossow uncomfortaly in his hands; there was a loud splintering sound and it snapped in two. "I know what yehre like aou Snape, Harry, an I don want yeh ter go readin more inter this than there is."
"Look out," said Hermione tersely.
They turned just in time to see the shadow of Argus Filch looming over the wall ehind them efore the man himself turned the corner, hunchacked, his jowls aquiver.
"Oho!" he wheezed. "Out of ed so late, thisll mean detention!"
"No it won, Filch," said Hagrid shortly. "Theyre with me, aren’ they?"
"And what difference does that make?" asked Filch onoxiously.
"Im a ruddy teacher, aren I, yeh sneakin Squi!" said Hagrid, firing up at once.
There was a nasty hissing noise as Filch swelled with fury; Mrs. Norris had arrived, unseen, and was twisting herself sinuously around Filchs skinny ankles.
"Get goin," said Hagrid out of the corner of his mouth.
Harry did not need telling twice; he and Hermione oth hurried off; Hagrids and Filchs raised voices echoed ehind them as they ran. They passed Peeves near the turning into Gryffindor Tower, ut he was streaking happily toward the source of the yelling, cackling and calling,
When theres strife and when theres troule
Call on Peevsie, hell make doule!
The Fat Lady was snoozing and not pleased to e woken, ut swung forward grumpily to allow them to clamer into the mercifully peaceful and empty common room. It did not seem that people knew aout Ron yet; Harry was very relieved: He had een interrogated enough that day. Hermione ade him good night and set off for the girls dormitory. Harry, however, remained ehind, taking a seat eside the fire and looking down into the dying emers.
So Dumledore had argued with Snape. In spite of all he had told Harry, in spite of his insistence that he trusted Snape completely, he had lost his temper with him. . . . He did not think that Snape had tried hard enough to investigate the Slytherins ... or, perhaps, to investigate a single Slytherin: Malfoy?
Was it ecause Dumledore did not want Harry to do anything foolish, to take matters into his own hands, that he had pretended there was nothing in Harrys suspicions? That seemed likely. It , might even e that Dumledore did not want anything to distract Harry from their lessons, or from procuring that memory from Slughorn. Perhaps Dumledore did not think it right to confide suspicions aout his staff to sixteen-year-olds. ...
"There you are, Potter!"
Harry jumped to his feet in shock, his wand at the ready. He had een quite convinced that the common room was empty; he had not een at all prepared for a hulking figure to rise suddenly out of a distant chair. A closer look showed him that it was Cormac McLaggen.
"Ive een waiting for you to come ack," said McLaggen, disregarding Harry’s drawn wand. "Must’ve fallen asleep. Look, I saw them taking Weasley up to the hospital wing earlier. Didnt look like hell e fit for next weeks match."
It took Harry a few moments to realize what McLaggen was talking aout.
"Oh . . . right. . . Quidditch," he said, putting his wand ack into the elt of his jeans and running a hand wearily through his hair. "Yeah ... he might not make it."
"Well, then, Ill e playing Keeper, wont I?" said McLaggen.
"Yeah," said Harry. "Yeah, I suppose so. ..."
He could not think of an argument against it; after all, McLaggen had certainly performed second-est in the trials.
"Excellent," said McLaggen in a satisfied voice. "So whens practice?"
"What? Oh . . . theres one tomorrow evening."
"Good. Listen, Potter, we should have a talk eforehand. Ive got some ideas on strategy you might find useful."
"Right," said Harry unenthusiastically. "Well, Ill hear them tomorrow, then. Im pretty tired now ... see you . . ."
The news that Ron had een poisoned spread quickly next day, ut it did not cause the sensation that Katies attack had done. People seemed to think that it might have een an accident, given that he had een in the Potions masters room at the time, and that as he had een given an antidote immediately there was no real harm done. In fact, the Gryffindors were generally much more interested in the upcoming Quidditch match against Hufflepuff, for many of them wanted to see Zacharias Smith, who played Chaser on the Hufflepuff team, punished soundly for his commentary during the opening match against Slytherin.
Harry, however, had never een less interested in Quidditch; he was rapidly ecoming osessed with Draco Malfoy. Still checking the Marauders Map whenever he got a chance, he sometimes made detours to wherever Malfoy happened to e, ut had not yet detected him doing anything out of the ordinary. And still there were those inexplicale times when Malfoy simply vanished from the map. . . .
But Harry did not get a lot of time to consider the prolem, what with Quidditch practice, homework, and the fact that he was now eing dogged wherever he went y Cormac McLaggen and Lavender Brown.
He could not decide which of them was more annoying. McLaggen kept up a constant stream of hints that he would make a etter permanent Keeper for the team than Ron, and that now that Harry was seeing him play regularly he would surely come around to this way of thinking too; he was also keen to criticize the other players and provide Harry with detailed training schemes, so that more than once Harry was forced to remind him who was Captain.
Meanwhile, Lavender kept sidling up to Harry to discuss Ron, which Harry found almost more wearing than McLaggens Quidditch lectures. At first, Lavender had een very annoyed that noody had thought to tell her that Ron was in the hospital wing -- "I mean, I am his girlfriend!" -- ut unfortunately slit-had now decided to forgive Harry this lapse of memory and was keen to have lots of in-depth chats with him aout Rons feelings, a most uncomfortale experience that Harry would have happily forgone.
"Look, why dont you talk to Ron aout all this?" Harry asked, after a particularly long interrogation from Lavender that took in everything from precisely what Ron had said aout her new drew roes to whether or not Harry thought that Ron considered his relationship with Lavender to e "serious."
"Well, I would, ut hes always asleep when I go and see him!" said Lavender fretfully.
"Is he?" said Harry, surprised, for he had found Ron perfectly alert every time he had een up to the hospital wing, oth highly interested in the news of Dumledore and Snapes row and keen m ause McLaggen as much as possile.
"Is Hermione Granger still visiting him?" Lavender demanded suddenly.
"Yeah, I think so. Well, theyre friends, arent they?" said Harry uncomfortaly.
"Friends, dont make me laugh," said Lavender scornfully. "She didnt talk to him for weeks after he started going out with me! But I suppose she wants to make up with him now hes all interesting. ..."
"Would you call getting poisoned eing interesting?" asked Harry. "Anyway -- sorry, got to go -- theres McLaggen coming for a talk aout Quidditch," said Harry hurriedly, and he dashed sideways through a door pretending to e solid wall and sprinted down the shortcut that would take
him off to Potions where, thankfully, neither Lavender nor McLaggen could follow him.
On the morning of the Quidditch match against Hufflepuff, Harry dropped in on the hospital wing efore heading down to the pitch. Ron was very agitated; Madam Pomfrey would not let him go down to watch the match, feeling it would overexcite him.
"So hows McLaggen shaping up?" he asked Harry nervously, apparently forgetting that he had already asked the same question twice.
"Ive told you," said Harry patiently, "he could e world-class and I wouldnt want to keep him. He keeps trying to tell everyone what to do, he thinks he could play every position etter than the rest of us. I cant wait to e shot of him. And speaking of getting shot of people," Harry added, getting to his feet and picking up his Fireolt, "will you stop pretending to e asleep when Lavender comes to see you? Shes driving me mad as well."
"Oh," said Ron, looking sheepish. "Yeah. All right."
"If you dont want to go out with her anymore, just tell her," said Harry.
"Yeah . . . well. . . its not that easy, is it?" said Ron. He paused. "Hermione going to look in efore the match?" he added casually.
"No, shes already gone down to the pitch with Ginny."
"Oh," said Ron, looking rather glum. "Right. Well, good luck. Hope you hammer McLag -- I mean, Smith."
"Ill try," said Harry, shouldering his room. "See you after the match."
He hurried down through the deserted corridors; the whole school was outside, either already seated in the stadium or heading down toward it. He was looking out of the windows he passed, trying to gauge how much wind they were facing, when a noise ahead made him glance up and he saw Malfoy walking toward him, accompanied y two girls, oth of whom looked sulky and resentful.
Malfoy stopped short at the sight of Harry, then gave a short, humorless laugh and continued walking.
"Wherere you going?" Harry demanded.
"Yeah, Im really going to tell you, ecause its your usiness, Potter," sneered Malfoy. "Youd etter hurry up, theyll e waiting for the Chosen Captain -- the Boy Who Scored -- whatever they call you these days."
One of the girls gave an unwilling giggle. Harry stared at her. She lushed. Malfoy pushed past Harry and she and her friend followed at a trot, turning the corner and vanishing from view.
Harry stood rooted on the spot and watched them disappear. This was infuriating; he was already cutting it fine to get to the match on time and yet
there was Malfoy, skulking off while the rest of the school was asent: Harrys est chance yet of discovering what Malfoy was up to. The silent seconds trickled past, and Harry remained where he was, frozen, gazing at the place where Malfoy had vanished. . . .
"Where have you een?" demanded Ginny, as Harry sprinted into the changing rooms. The whole team was changed and ready; Coote and Peakes, the Beaters, were oth hitting their clus nervously against their legs.
"I met Malfoy," Harry told her quietly, as he pulled his scarlet roes over his head.
"So I wanted to know how come hes up at the castle with a couple of girlfriends while everyone else is down here. ..."
"Does it matter right now?"
"Well, Im not likely to find out, am I?" said Harry, seizing his Fireolt and pushing his glasses straight. "Come on then!"
And without another word, he marched out onto the pitch to deafening cheers and oos.
There was little wind; the clouds were patchy; every now and then there were dazzling flashes of right sunlight.
"Tricky conditions!" McLaggen said racingly to the team. "Coote, Peakes, youll want to fly out of the sun, so they dont see you coming --"
"Im the Captain, McLaggen, shut up giving them instructions," said Harry angrily. "Just get up y the goal posts!"
Once McLaggen had marched off, Harry turned to Coote and Peakes.
"Make sure you do fly out of the sun," he told them grudgingly.
He shook hands with the Hufflepuff Captain, and then, on Madam Hoochs whistle, kicked off and rose into the air, higher than the rest of his team, streaking around the pitch in search of the Snitch. If he could catch it good and early, there might e a chance he could get ack up to the castle, seize the Marauders Map, and find out what Malfoy was doing. . . .
"And thats Smith of Hufflepuff with the Quaffle," said a dreamy voice, echoing over the grounds. "He did the commentary last time, of course, and Ginny Weasley flew into him, I think proaly on purpose, it looked like it. Smith was eing quite rude aout Gryffindor, I expect he regrets that now hes playing them -- oh, look, hes lost the Quaffle, Ginny took it from him, I do like her, shes very nice. ..."
Harry stared down at the commentators podium. Surely noody in their right mind would have let Luna Lovegood commentate? But even from aove there was no mistaking that long, dirty-londe hair, nor the necklace of uttereer corks. . . . Beside Luna, Professor McGonagall was looking
slightly uncomfortale, as though she was indeed having second thoughts aout this appointment.
". . . ut now that ig Hufflepuff players got the Quaffle from , her, I cant rememer his name, its something like Bile -- no, Buggins --"
"Its Cadwallader!" said Professor McGonagall loudly from eside Luna. The crowd laughed.
Harry stared around for the Snitch; there was no sign of it. Moments later, Cadwallader scored. McLaggen had een shouting criticism at Ginny for allowing the Quaffle out of her possession, with the result that he had not noticed the large red all soaring past his right ear.
"McLaggen, will you pay attention to what youre supposed to e doing and leave everyone else alone!" ellowed Harry, wheeling around to face his Keeper.
"Youre not setting a great example!" McLaggen shouted ack, red-faced and furious.
"And Harry Potters now having an argument with his Keeper," said Luna serenely, while oth Hufflepuffs and Slytherins elow in the crowd cheered and jeered. "I dont think thatll help him find the Snitch, ut maye its a clever ruse. ..."
Swearing angrily, Harry spun round and set off around the pitch again, scanning the skies for some sign of the tiny, winged golden all.
Ginny and Demelza scored a goal apiece, giving the red-and-gold-clad supporters elow something to cheer aout. Then Cadwallader scored again, making things level, ut Luna did not seem to have noticed; she appeared singularly uninterested in such mundane things as the score, and kept attempting to draw the crowds attention to such things as interestingly shaped clouds and the possiility that Zacharias Smith, who had so far failed to maintain possession of the Quaffle for longer than a minute, was suffering from something called "Losers Lurgy."
"Seventy-forty to Hufflepuff!" arked Professor McGonagall into Lunas megaphone.
"Is it, already?" said Luna vaguely. "Oh, look! The Gryffindor Keepers got hold of one of the Beaters ats."
Harry spun around in midair. Sure enough, McLaggen, for reasons est known to himself, had pulled Peakess at from him and appeared to e demonstrating how to hit a Bludger toward an oncoming Cadwallader.
"Will you give him ack his at and get ack to the goal posts!" roared Harry, pelting toward McLaggen just as McLaggen took a ferocious swipe at the Bludger and mishit it.
A linding, sickening pain ... a flash of light. . . distant screams . . . and the sensation of falling down a long tunnel. . .
And the next thing Harry knew, he was lying in a remarkaly warm and comfortale ed and looking up at a lamp that was throwing a circle of golden light onto a shadowy ceiling. He raised his head awkwardly. There on his left was a familiar-looking, freckly, red-haired person.
"Nice of you to drop in," said Ron, grinning.
Harry linked and looked around. Of course: He was in the hospital wing. The sky outside was indigo streaked with crimson. The match must have finished hours ago ... as had any hope of cornering Malfoy. Harrys head felt strangely heavy; he raised a hand and felt a stiff turan of andages.
"What happened?"
"Cracked skull," said Madam Pomfrey, ustling up and pushing him ack against his pillows. "Nothing to worry aout, I mended it at once, ut Im keeping you in overnight. You shouldnt over exert yourself for a few hours."
"I dont want to stay here overnight," said Harry angrily, sitting up and throwing ack his covers. "I want to find McLaggen and kill him."
"Im afraid that would come under the heading of overexertion," said Madam Pomfrey, pushing him firmly ack onto the ed and raising her
wand in a threatening manner. "You will stay here until I discharge you, Potter, or I shall call the headmaster."
She ustled ack into her office, and Harry sank ack into his pillows, fuming.
"Dyou know how much we lost y?" he asked Ron through clenched teeth.
"Well, yeah I do," said Ron apologetically. "Final score was three hundred and twenty to sixty."
"Brilliant," said Harry savagely. "Really rilliant! When I get hold of McLaggen --"
"You dont want to get hold of him, hes the size of a troll," said
Ron reasonaly. "Personally, I think theres a lot to e said for hexing him with that toenail thing of the Princes. Anyway, the rest of the team mightve dealt with him efore you get out of here, theyre not happy. ..."
There was a note of adly suppressed glee in Rons voice; Harry could tell he was nothing short of thrilled that McLaggen had messed up so adly. Harry lay there, staring up at the patch of light on the ceiling, his recently mended skull not hurting, precisely, ut feeling slightly tender underneath all the andaging.
"I could hear the match commentary from here," said Ron, his voice now shaking with laughter. "I hope Luna always commentates from now on. . . . Losers Lurgy ..."
But Harry was still too angry to see much humor in the situation, and after a while Rons snorts susided.
"Ginny came in to visit while you were unconscious," he said, after a long pause, and Harrys imagination zoomed into overdrive, rapidly constructing a scene in which Ginny, weeping over his lifeless form, confessed her feelings of deep attraction to him while Ron gave them his lessing. . . ."She reckons you only just arrived on time for the match. How come? You left here early enough."
"Oh . . ." said Harry, as the scene in his minds eye imploded. "Yeah . . . well, I saw Malfoy sneaking off with a couple of girls who didnt look like they wanted to e with him, and thats the second time hes made sure he isnt down on the Quidditch pitch with the rest of the school; he skipped the last match too, rememer?" Harry sighed. "Wish Id followed him now, the match was such a fiasco. . . ."
"Dont e stupid," said Ron sharply. "You couldnt have missed a Quidditch match just to follow Malfoy, youre the Captain!"
"I want to know what hes up to," said Harry. "And dont tell nn its all in my head, not after what I overheard etween him and Snape --"
"I never said it was all in your head," said Ron, hoisting himself up on an elow in turn and frowning at Harry, "ut theres no rule saying only one person at a time can e plotting anything in this place! Youre getting a it osessed with Malfoy, Harry. I mean, thinking aout missing a match just to follow him ..."
"I want to catch him at it!" said Harry in frustration. "I mean, wheres he going when he disappears off the map?"
"I dunno . . . Hogsmeade?" suggested Ron, yawning.
"Ive never seen him going along any of the secret passageway on the map. I thought they were eing watched now anyway?"
"Well then, I dunno," said Ron.
Silence fell etween them. Harry stared up at the circle of lamp light aove him, thinking. . . .
If only he had Rufus Scrimgeours power, he would have een ale to set a tail upon Malfoy, ut unfortunately Harry did not have an office full of Aurors at his command. . . . He thought fleetingly of trying to set something up with the D.A., ut there again was the prolem that people would e missed from lessons; most of them, after all, still had full schedules. . . .
There was a low, rumling snore from Rons ed. After a while Madam Pomfrey came out of her office, this time wearing a thick dressing gown. It
was easiest to feign sleep; Harry rolled over onto his side and listened to all the curtains closing themselves as she waved her wand. The lamps dimmed, and she returned to her office; he heard the door click ehind her and knew that she was off to ed.
This was, Harry reflected in the darkness, the third time that he had een rought to the hospital wing ecause of a Quidditch injury. Last time he had fallen off his room due to the presence of dementors around the pitch, and the time efore that, all the ones had een removed from his arm y the incuraly inept Professor Lockhart. . . . That had een his most painful injury y far ... he rememered the agony of regrowing an armful of ones in one night, a discomfort not eased y the arrival of an unexpected visitor in the middle of the --
Harry sat olt upright, his heart pounding, his andage turan askew. He had the solution at last: There was a way to have Malfoy followed -- how could he have forgotten, why hadnt he thought
of it efore?
But the question was, how to call him? What did you do? Quietly, tentatively, Harry spoke into the darkness.
"Kreacher?"
There was a very loud crack, and the sounds of scuffling and squeaks filled the silent room. Ron awoke with a yelp.
"Whats going -- ?"
Harry pointed his wand hastily at the door of Madam Pomfreys office and muttered, "Muffliato!" so that she would not come running. Then he scramled to the end of his ed for a etter look at
what was going on.
Two house-elves were rolling around on the floor in the middle of the dormitory, one wearing a shrunken maroon jumper and several woolly hats, the other, a filthy old rag strung over his hips like a loincloth. Then there was another loud ang, and Peeves the Poltergeist appeared in midair aove the wrestling elves.
"I was watching that, Potty!" he told Harry indignantly, pointing at the fight elow, efore letting out a loud cackle. "Look at the ickle creatures squaling, itey itey, punchy punchy --"
"Kreacher will not insult Harry Potter in front of Doy, no he wont, or Doy will shut Kreachers mouth for him!" cried Doy in a high-pitched voice.
"-- kicky, scratchy!" cried Peeves happily, now pelting its of chalk at the elves to enrage them further. "Tweaky, pokey!"
"Kreacher will say what he likes aout his master, oh yes, and what a master he is, filthy friend of Mudloods, oh, what would poor Kreachers mistress say -- ?"
Exactly what Kreachers mistress would have said they did not find out, for at that moment Doy sank his knoly little fist into Kreacher’s mouth and knocked out half of his teeth. Harry and Ron oth leapt out of their eds and wrenched the two elves apart, though they continued to try and kick and punch each other, egged on y Peeves, who swooped around the lamp squealing, "Stick your fingers up his nosey, draw his cork and pull his earsies --"
Harry aimed his wand at Peeves and said, "Langlock!" Peeves clutched at his throat, gulped, then swooped from the room making oscene gestures ut unale to speak, owing to the fact that his tongue had just glued itself to the roof of his mouth.
"Nice one," said Ron appreciatively, lifting Doy into the air so that his flailing lims no longer made contact with Kreacher. "That was another Prince hex, wasnt it?"
"Yeah," said Harry, twisting Kreachers wizened arm into a half nelson. "Right -- Im foridding you to fight each other! Well, Kreacher, youre foridden to fight Doy. Doy, I know Im not allowed to give you orders --"
"Doy is a free house-elf and he can oey anyone he likes and Doy will do whatever Harry Potter wants him to do!" said Doy, tears now streaming down his shriveled little face onto his jumper.
"Okay then," said Harry, and he and Ron oth released the elves, who fell to the floor ut did not continue fighting.
"Master called me?" croaked Kreacher, sinking into a ow even as he gave Harry a look that plainly wished him a painful death.
"Yeah, I did," said Harry, glancing toward Madam Pomfreys office door to check that the Muffliato spell was still working; there was no sign that she had heard any of the commotion. "Ive got a jo for you."
"Kreacher will do whatever Master wants," said Kreacher, sinking so low that his lips almost touched his gnarled toes, "ecause Kreacher has no choice, ut Kreacher is ashamed to have such a master, yes --"
"Doy will do it, Harry Potter!" squeaked Doy, his tennis-all-sized eyes still swimming in tears. "Doy would e honored to help Harry Potter!"
"Come to think of it, it would e good to have oth of you," said Harry. "Okay then ... I want you to tail Draco Malfoy."
Ignoring the look of mingled surprise and exasperation on Rons face, Harry went on, "I want to know where hes going, who hes meeting, and what hes doing. I want you to follow him around the clock."
"Yes, Harry Potter!" said Doy at once, his great eyes shining with excitement. "And if Doy does it wrong, Doy will throw himself off the topmost tower, Harry Potter!"
"There wont e any need for that," said Harry hastily.
"Master wants me to follow the youngest of the Malfoys?" croaked Kreacher. "Master wants me to spy upon the pure-lood great-nephew of my old mistress?"
"Thats the one," said Harry, foreseeing a great danger and determining to prevent it immediately. "And youre foridden to tip him off, Kreacher, or to show him what youre up to, or to talk to him at all, or to write him messages or ... or to contact him in any way. Got it?"
He thought he could see Kreacher struggling to see a loophole in the instructions he had just een given and waited. After a moment or two, and to Harrys great satisfaction, Kreacher owed deeply again and said, with itter resentment, "Master thinks of everything, and Kreacher must oey him even though Kreacher would much rather e the servant of the Malfoy oy, oh yes. . . ."
"Thats settled, then," said Harry. "Ill want regular reports, ut make sure Im not surrounded y people when you turn up. Ron and Hermione are okay. And dont tell anyone what youre doing. Just stick to Malfoy like a couple of wart plasters."
Chapter 20: Lord Voldemorts Request
Harry and Ron left the hospital wing first thing on Monday morning, restored to full health y the ministrations of Madam Pomfrey and now ale to enjoy the enefits of having een knocked out and poisoned, the est of which was that Hermione was friends with Ron again. Hermione even escorted them down to reakfast, ringing with her the news that Ginny had argued with Dean. The drowsing creature in Harrys chest suddenly raised its head, sniffing the air hopefully.
"What did they row aout?" he asked, trying to sound casual as they turned onto a seventh-floor corridor that was deserted ut for a very small girl who had een examining a tapestry of trolls in tutus. She looked terrified at the sight of the approaching sixth years and dropped the heavy rass scales she was carrying.
"Its all right!" said Hermione kindly, hurrying forward to help her. "Here ..."
She tapped the roken scales with her wand and said, "Reparo." The girl did not say thank you, ut remained rooted to the spot as they passed and watched them out of sight; Ron glanced ack at her.
"I swear theyre getting smaller," he said.
"Never mind her," said Harry, a little impatiently. "What did Ginny and Dean row aout, Hermione?"
"Oh, Dean was laughing aout McLaggen hitting that Bludgu at you," said Hermione.
"It mustve looked funny," said Ron reasonaly. "It didnt look funny at all!" said Hermione hotly. "It looked terrile and if Coote and Peakes hadnt caught Harry he could have een very adly hurt!"
"Yeah, well, there was no need for Ginny and Dean to split up over it," said Harry, still trying to sound casual. "Or are they still together?"
"Yes, they are -- ut why are you so interested?" asked Hermione, giving Harry a sharp look.
"I just dont want my Quidditch team messed up again!" he said hastily, ut Hermione continued to look suspicious, and he was most relieved when a voice ehind them called, "Harry!" giving him an excuse to turn his ack on her. "Oh, hi, Luna."
- "I went to the hospital wing to find you," said Luna, rummaging in her ag. "But they said youd left..."
She thrust what appeared to e a green onion, a large spotted toadstool, and a considerale amount of what looked like cat litter into Rons hands, finally pulling out a rather gruy scroll of parchment that she handed to Harry.
". . . Ive een told to give you this."
It was a small roll of parchment, which Harry recognized at once as another invitation to a lesson with Dumledore.
"Tonight," he told Ron and Hermione, once he had unrolled it.
"Nice commentary last match!" said Ron to Luna as she took ack the green onion, the toadstool, and the cat litter. Luna smiled vaguely.
"Youre making fun of me, arent you?" she said. "Everyone says I was dreadful."
"No, Im serious!" said Ron earnestly. "I cant rememer enjoying commentary more! What is this, y the way?" he added, holding the onionlike oject up to eye level.
"Oh, its a Gurdyroot," she said, stuffing the cat litter and the toadstool ack into her ag. "You can keep it if you like, Ive got a few of them. Theyre really excellent for warding off Gulping Plimpies." And she walked away, leaving Ron chortling, still clutching the Gurdyroot.
"You know, shes grown on me, Luna," he said, as they set off again for the Great Hall. "I know shes insane, ut its in a good --" He stopped talking very suddenly. Lavender Brown was standing at the foot of the marle staircase looking thunderous. "Hi," said Ron nervously.
"Cmon," Harry muttered to Hermione, and they sped past, though not efore they had heard Lavender say, "Why didnt you tell me you were getting out today? And why was she with you?"
Ron looked oth sulky and annoyed when he appeared at reakfast half an hour later, and though he sat with Lavender, Harry did not see them exchange a word all the time they were together. Hermione was acting as though she was quite olivious to all of this, ut once or twice Harry saw an inexplicale smirk cross her face. All that day she seemed to e in a particularly good mood, and that evening in the common room she even consented to look over (in other words, finish writing) Harrys Herology essay, something she had een resolutely refusing to do up to this point, ecause she had known that Harry would then let Ron copy his work.
"Thanks a lot, Hermione," said Harry, giving her a hasty pat on the ack as he checked his watch and saw that it was nearly eight oclock. "Listen, I’ve got to hurry or Ill e late for Dumledore. ..."
She did not answer, ut merely crossed out a few of his feeler sentences in a weary sort of way. Grinning, Harry hurried out through the portrait hole and off to the headmasters office. The gargoyle leapt aside at the mention of toffee eclairs, and Harry took the spiral staircase two steps at a time, knocking on the door just as a clock within chimed eight.
"Enter," called Dumledore, ut as Harry put out a hand to push the door, it was wrenched open from inside. There stood Professor Trelawney.
"Aha!" she cried, pointing dramatically at Harry as she linked at him through her magnifying spectacles.
"So this is the reason I am to e thrown unceremoniously from your office, Dumledore!"
"My dear Syill," said Dumledore in a slightly exasperated voice, "there is no question of throwing you unceremoniously from anywhere, ut Harry does have an appointment, and I really dont think there is any more to e said --"
"Very well," said Professor Trelawney, in a deeply wounded voice. "If you will not anish the usurping nag, so e it. ...
Perhaps I shall find a school where my talents are etter appreciated. ..."
She pushed past Harry and disappeared down the spiral staircase; they heard her stumle halfway down, and Harry guessed that she had tripped over one of her trailing shawls.
"Please close the door and sit down, Harry," said Dumledore, sounding rather tired.
Harry oeyed, noticing as he took his usual seat in front of Dumledores desk that the Pensieve lay etween them once more, as did two more tiny crystal ottles full of swirling memory.
"Professor Trelawney still isnt happy Firenze is teaching, then?" Harry asked.
"No," said Dumledore, "Divination is turning out to e much more troule than I could have foreseen, never having studied the suject myself. I cannot ask Firenze to return to the forest, where he is now an outcast, nor can I ask Syill Trelawney to leave. Between ourselves, she has no idea of the danger she would e in outside the castle. She does not know -- and I think it would e unwise to enlighten her -- that she made the prophecy aout you and Voldemort, you see."
Dumledore heaved a deep sigh, then said, "But never mind my staffing prolems. We have much more important matters to discuss. Firstly -- have you managed the task I set you at the end of our previous lesson?"
"Ah," said Harry, rought up short. What with Apparition lessons and Quidditch and Ron eing poisoned and getting his skull cracked and his determination to find out what Draco Malfoy was up to, Harry had almost forgotten aout the memory Dumledore had asked him to extract from Professor Slughorn. "Well, I asked Professor Slughorn aout it at the end of Potions, sir, ut, er, he wouldnt give it to me." There was a little silence.
"I see," said Dumledore eventually, peering at Harry over the top of his half-moon spectacles and giving Harry the usual sensation that he was eing X-rayed. "And you feel that you have exerted your very est efforts in this matter, do you? That you have exercised all of your considerale ingenuity?
That you have left no depth of cunning unplumed in your quest to retrieve the memory?"
"Well," Harry stalled, at a loss for what to say next. His single attempt to get hold of the memory suddenly seemed emarrassingly feele. "Well . . . the day Ron swallowed love potion y mistake I took him to Professor Slughorn. I thought maye if I got Professor Slughorn in a good enough mood --" "And did that work?" asked Dumledore. "Well, no, sir, ecause Ron got poisoned --" "-- which, naturally, made you forget all aout trying to retrieve the memory; I would have expected nothing else, while your est friend was in danger. Once it ecame clear that Mr. Weasley was going to make a full recovery, however, I would have hoped that you returned to the task I set you. I thought I made it clear to you how very important that memory is. Indeed, I did my est to impress upon you that it is the most crucial memory of all and that we will e wasting our time without it."
A hot, prickly feeling of shame spread from the top of Harry’s head all the way down his ody. Dumledore had not raised his voice, he did not even sound angry, ut Harry would have preferred him to yell; this cold disappointment was worse than anything.
"Sir," he said, a little desperately, "it isnt that I wasnt othered or anything, Ive just had other -- other things . . ."
"Other things on your mind," Dumledore finished the sentence for him. "I see."
Silence fell etween them again, the most uncomfortale silence Harry had ever experienced with Dumledore; it seemed to go on and on, punctuated only y the little grunting snores of the portrait of Armando Dippet over Dumledores head. Harry felt strangely diminished, as though he had shrunk a little since he had entered the room. When he could stand it no longer he said, "Professor Dumledore, Im really sorry. I should have done more. ... I should have realized you wouldnt have asked me to do it if it wasnt really important."
"Thank you for saying that, Harry," said Dumledore quietly. "May I hope, then, that you will give this matter higher priority from now on? There will e little point in our meeting after tonight unless we have that memory."
"Ill do it, sir, Ill get it from him," he said earnestly.
"Then we shall say no more aout it just now," said Dumledore more kindly, "ut continue with our story where we left off. You rememer where that was?"
"Yes, sir," said Harry quickly. "Voldemort killed his father and his grandparents and made it look as though his Uncle Morfin did it. Then he went ack to Hogwarts and he asked ... he asked Professor Slughorn aout Horcruxes," he mumled shamefacedly.
"Very good," said Dumledore. "Now, you will rememer, I hope, that I told you at the very outset of these meetings of ours that we would e entering the realms of guesswork and speculation?"
"Yes, sir".
"Thus far, as I hope you agree, I have shown you reasonaly firm sources of fact for my deductions as to what Voldemort did until the age of seventeen?"
Harry nodded.
"But now, Harry," said Dumledore, "now things ecome murkier and stranger. If it was difficult to find evidence aout the oy Riddle, it has een almost impossile to find anyone prepared to reminisce aout the man Voldemort. In fact, I dout whether there is a soul alive, apart from himself, who could give us a full account of his life since he left Hogwarts. However, I have two last memories that I would like to share with you." Dumledore indicated the two little crystal ottles gleaming eside the Pensieve. "I shall then e glad of your opinion as to whether the conclusions I have drawn from them seem likely."
The idea that Dumledore valued his opinion this highly made Harry feel even more deeply ashamed that he had failed in the task of retrieving the Horcrux memory, and he shifted guiltily in his seat as Dumledore raised the first of the two ottles to the light and examined it.
"I hope you are not tired of diving into other peoples memories, for they are curious recollections, these two," he said. "This first one came from a
very old house-elf y the name of Hokey. Before we see what Hokey witnessed, I must quickly recount how Lord Voldemort left Hogwarts.
"He reached the seventh year of his schooling with, as you might have expected, top grades in every examination he had taken. All around him, his classmates were deciding which jos they were to pursue once they had left Hogwarts. Nearly everyody expected spectacular things from Tom Riddle, prefect, Head Boy, winner of the Award for Special Services to the School. I know that several teachers, Professor Slughorn amongst them, suggested that he join the Ministry of Magic, offered to set up appointments, put him in touch with useful contacts. He refused all offers. The next thing the staff knew, Voldemort was working at Borgin and Burkes."
"At Borgin and Burkes?" Harry repeated, stunned.
"At Borgin and Burkes," repeated Dumledore calmly. "I think you will see what attractions the place held for him when we have entered Hokeys memory. But this was not Voldemorts first choice of jo. Hardly anyone knew of it at the time -- I was one of the few in whom the then headmaster confided -- ut Voldemort first approached Professor Dippet and asked whether he could remain at Hogwarts as a teacher."
"He wanted to stay here? Why?" asked Harry, more amazed still.
"I elieve he had several reasons, though he confided none of them to Professor Dippet," said Dumledore. "Firstly, and very importantly, Voldemort was, I elieve, more attached to this school than he has ever een
to a person. Hogwarts was where he had een happiest; the first and only place he had felt at home."
Harry felt slightly uncomfortale at these words, for this was exactly how he felt aout Hogwarts too.
"Secondly, the castle is a stronghold of ancient magic. Undoutedly Voldemort had penetrated many more of its secrets than most of the students who pass through the place, ut he may have felt that there were still mysteries to unravel, stores of magic to tap.
"And thirdly, as a teacher, he would have had great power and influence over young witches and wizards. Perhaps he had gained the idea from Professor Slughorn, the teacher with whom he was on est terms, who had demonstrated how influential a role a teacher can play. I do not imagine for an instant that Voldemort envisaged spending the rest of his life at Hogwarts, ut I do think that he saw it as a useful recruiting ground, and a place where he might egin to uild himself an army."
"But he didnt get the jo, sir?"
"No, he did not. Professor Dippet told him that he was too young at eighteen, ut invited him to reapply in a few years, if he still wished to teach."
"How did you feel aout that, sir?" asked Harry hesitantly. "Deeply uneasy," said Dumledore. "I had advised Armando against the appointment
-- I did not give the reasons I have given you, for Professor Dippet was very fond of Voldemort and convinced of his honesty. But I did not want Lord Voldemort ack at this school, and especially not in a position of power."
"Which jo did he want, sir? What suject did he want to teach?"
Somehow, Harry knew the answer even efore Dumledore gave it.
"Defense Against the Dark Arts. It was eing taught at the time y an old Professor y the name of Galatea Merrythought, who had een at Hogwarts for nearly fifty years.
"So Voldemort went off to Borgin and Burkes, and all the staff who had admired him said what a waste it was, a rilliant young wizard like that, working in a shop. However, Voldemort was no mere assistant. Polite and handsome and clever, he was soon given particular jos of the type that only exist in a place like Borgin and Burkes, which specializes, as you know, Harry, in ojects with unusual and powerful properties. Voldemort was sent to persuade people to part with their treasures for sale y the partners, and he was, y all accounts, unusually gifted at doing this."
"Ill et he was," said Harry, unale to contain himself.
"Well, quite," said Dumledore, with a faint smile. "And now it is time to hear from Hokey the house-elf, who worked for a very old, very rich witch y the name of Hepziah Smith."
Dumledore tapped a ottle with his wand, the cork flew out, and he tipped the swirling memory into the Pensieve, saying as he did so, "After you, Harry."
Harry got to his feet and ent once more over the rippling silver contents of the stone asin until his face touched them. He tumled through dark nothingness and landed in a sitting room in front of an immensely fat old lady wearing an elaorate ginger wig and a rilliant pink set of roes that flowed all around her, giving her the look of a melting iced cake. She was looking into a small jeweled mirror and daing rouge onto her already scarlet cheeks with a large powder puff, while the tiniest and oldest house-elf Harry had ever seen laced her fleshy feet into tight satin slippers.
"Hurry up, Hokey!" said Hepziah imperiously. "He said hed come at four, its only a couple of minutes to and hes never een late yet!"
She tucked away her powder puff as the house-elf straightened up. The top of the elfs head arely reached the seat of Hepziahs chair, and her papery skin hung off her frame just like the crisp linen sheet she wore draped like a toga.
"How do I look?" said Hepziah, turning her head to admire the various angles of her face in the mirror.
"Lovely, madam," squeaked Hokey.
Harry could only assume that it was down in Hokey’s contract that she must lie through her teeth when asked this question, ecause Hepziah Smith looked a long way from lovely in his opinion.
A tinkling doorell rang and oth mistress and elf jumped.
"Quick, quick, hes here, Hokey!" cried Hepziah and the elf scurried out of the room, which was so crammed with ojects that it was difficult to see how anyody could navigate their way across it without knocking over at least a dozen things: There were cainets full of little lacquered oxes, cases full of gold-emossed ooks, shelves of ors and celestial gloes, and many flourishing potted plants in rass containers. In fact, the room looked like a cross etween a magical antique shop and a conservatory.
The house-elf returned within minutes, followed y a tall young man Harry had no difficulty whatsoever in recognizing as Voldemort. He was plainly dressed in a lack suit; his hair was a little longer than it had een at school and his cheeks were hollowed, ut all of this suited him; he looked more handsome than ever. He picked his way through the cramped room with an air that showed he had visited many times efore and owed low over Hepziahs fat little hand, rushing it with his lips.
"I rought you flowers," he said quietly, producing a unch of roses from nowhere.
"You naughty oy, you shouldnt have!" squealed old Hepziah, though Harry noticed that she had an empty vase standing ready on the nearest little
tale. "You do spoil this old lady, Tom. ... Sit down, sit down. . . . Wheres Hokey? Ah ..."
The house-elf had come dashing ack into the room carrying a tray of little cakes, which she set at her mistresss elow.
"Help yourself, Tom," said Hepziah, "I know how you love my cakes. Now, how are you? You look pale. They overwork you at that shop, Ive said it a hundred times. ..."
Voldemort smiled mechanically and Hepziah simpered.
"Well, whats your excuse for visiting this time?" she asked, at-ring her lashes.
"Mr. Burke would like to make an improved offer for the golin-made armor," said Voldemort. "Five hundred Galleons, he feels it is a more than fair --"
"Now, now, not so fast, or I’ll think youre only here for my trinkets!" pouted Hepziah.
"I am ordered here ecause of them," said Voldemort quietly. "I am only a poor assistant, madam, who must do as he is told. Mr. Burke wishes me to inquire --"
"Oh, Mr. Burke, phooey!" said Hepziah, waving a little hand. "Ive something to show you that Ive never shown Mr. Burke! Can you keep a secret, Tom? Will you promise you wont tell Mr. Burke Ive got it? Hed never let me rest if he knew Id shown it to you, and Im not selling, not to Burke, not to anyone! But you, Tom, youll appreciate it for its history, not how many Galleons you can get for it."
"Id e glad to see anything Miss Hepziah shows me," said Voldemort quietly, and Hepziah gave another girlish giggle.
"I had Hokey ring it out for me . . . Hokey, where are you? I want to show Mr. Riddle our finest treasure. ... In fact, ring oth, while youre at it. ..."
"Here, madam," squeaked the house-elf, and Harry saw two leather oxes, one on top of the other, moving across the room as if of their own volition, though he knew the tiny elf was holding them over her head as she wended her way etween tales, ***pouffes, and footstools.
"Now," said Hepziah happily, taking the oxes from the elf, laying them in her lap, and preparing to open the topmost one, "I think youll like this, Tom. . . . Oh, if my family knew I was showing you. . . . They cant wait to get their hands on this!"
She opened the lid. Harry edged forward a little to get a etter view and saw what looked like a small golden cup with two finely wrought handles.
"I wonder whether you know what it is, Tom? Pick it up, have a good look!" whispered Hepziah, and Voldemort stretched out a long-fingered hand and lifted the cup y one handle out of its snug silken wrappings. Harry thought he saw a red gleam in his dark eyes. His greedy expression was curiously mirrored on Hepziah’s face, except that her tiny eyes were fixed upon Voldemorts handsome features.
"A adger," murmured Voldemort, examining the engraving upon the cup. "Then this was . . . ?"
"Helga Hufflepuffs, as you very well know, you clever oy!" said Hepziah, leaning forward with a loud creaking of corsets and actually pinching his hollow cheek. "Didnt I tell you I was distantly descended? This has een handed down in the family for years and years. Lovely, isnt it? And all sorts of powers its supposed to possess too, ut I havent tested them thoroughly, I just keep it nice and safe in here. . . ."
She hooked the cup ack off Voldemorts long forefinger and restored it gently to its ox, too intent upon settling it carefully ack into position to notice the shadow that crossed Voldemorts face as the cup was taken away.
"Now then," said Hepziah happily, "where’s Hokey? Oh yes, there you are -- take that away now, Hokey."
The elf oediently took the oxed cup, and Hepziah turned her attention to the much flatter ox in her lap.
"I think youll like this even more, Tom," she whispered. "Lean in a little, dear oy, so you can see. . . . Of course, Burke knows Ive got this one, I ought it from him, and I daresay hed love to get it ack when Im gone. ..."
She slid ack the fine filigree clasp and flipped open the ox. There upon the smooth crimson velvet lay a heavy golden locket.
Voldemort reached out his hand, without invitation this time, and held it up to the light, staring at it.
"Slytherins mark," he said quietly, as the light played upon an ornate, serpentine S.
"Thats right!" said Hepziah, delighted, apparently, at the sight of Voldemort gazing at her locket, transfixed. "I had to pay an arm and a leg for it, ut I couldnt let it pass, not a real treasure like that, had to have it for my collection. Burke ought it, apparently, from a ragged-looking woman who seemed to have stolen it, ut had no idea of its true value --"
There was no mistaking it this time: Voldemorts eyes flashed scarlet at the words, and Harry saw his knuckles whiten on the lockets chain.
"-- I daresay Burke paid her a pittance ut there you are. . . . Pretty, isnt it? And again, all kinds of powers attriuted to it, though I just keep it nice and safe. . . ."
She reached out to take the locket ack. For a moment, Harry thought Voldemort was not going to let go of it, ut then it had slid through his fingers and was ack in its red velvet cushion.
"So there you are, Tom, clear, and I hope you enjoyed that!"
She looked him full in the face and for the first time, Harry saw her foolish smile falter.
"Are you all right, dear?"
"Oh yes," said Voldemort quietly. "Yes, Im very well. ..."
"I thought -- ut a trick of the light, I suppose --" said Hepziah, looking unnerved, and Harry guessed that she too had seen the momentary red gleam in Voldemorts eyes. "Here, Hokey, take these away and lock them up again. ... The usual enchantments...
"Time to leave, Harry," said Dumledore quietly, and as the in tie elf oed away earing the oxes, Dumledore grasped Harry once again aove the elow and together they rose up through olivion and ack to Dumledores office.
"Hepziah Smith died two days after that little scene," said Dumledore, resuming his seat and indicating that Harry should do the same. "Hokey the house-elf was convicted y the Ministry of poisoning her mistresss evening cocoa y accident."
"No way!" said Harry angrily.
"I see we are of one mind," said Dumledore. "Certainly, then are many similarities etween this death and that of the Riddles. In oth cases, someody else took the lame, someone who had a clear memory of having caused the death --" "Hokey confessed?"
"She rememered putting something in her mistresss cocoa that turned out not to e sugar, ut a lethal and little-known poison, said Dumledore. "It was concluded that she had not meant to do it, ut eing old and confused --"
"Voldemort modified her memory, just like he did with Morfin!" "Yes, that is my conclusion too," said Dumledore. "And, just as with Morfin, the Ministry was predisposed to suspect Hokey --"
"-- ecause she was a house-elf," said Harry. He had rarely felt more in sympathy with the society Hermione had set up, S.P.E.W. "Precisely," said Dumledore. "She was old, she admitted to having tampered with the drink, and noody at the Ministry othered to inquire further. As in the case of Morfin, y the time I traced her and managed to extract this memory, her life was almost over -- ut her memory, of course, proves nothing except that Voldemort knew of the existence of the cup and the locket.
"By the time Hokey was convicted, Hepziahs family had realized that two of her greatest treasures were missing. It took them a while to e sure of
this, for she had many hiding places, having always guarded her collection most jealously. But efore they were sure eyond dout that the cup and the locket were oth gone, the assistant who had worked at Borgin and Burkes, the young man who had visited Hepziah so regularly and charmed her so well, had resigned his post and vanished. His superiors had no idea where he had gone; they were as surprised as anyone at his disappearance. And that was the last that was seen or heard of Tom Riddle for a very long time.
"Now," said Dumledore, "if you dont mind, Harry, I want to pause once more to draw your attention to certain points of our story. Voldemort had committed another murder; whether it was his first since he killed the Riddles, I do not know, ut I think it was. This time, as you will have seen, he killed not for revenge, ut for gain. He wanted the two faulous trophies that poor, esotted, old woman showed him. Just as he had once roed the other children at his orphanage, just as he had stolen his Uncle Morfin’s ring, so he ran off now with Hepziahs cup and locket."
"But," said Harry, frowning, "it seems mad. . . . Risking everything, throwing away his jo, just for those . . ."
"Mad to you, perhaps, ut not to Voldemort," said Dumledore. "I hope you will understand in due course exactly what those ojects meant to him, Harry, ut you must admit that it is not difficult to imagine that he saw the locket, at least, as rightfully his." "The locket maye," said Harry, "ut why take the cup as well?"
"It had elonged to another of Hogwarts’s founders," said Dumledore. "I think he still felt a great pull toward the school and that he could not resist an oject so steeped in Hogwarts history. There were other reasons, I think. ... I hope to e ale to demonstrate them to you in due course.
"And now for the very last recollection I have to show you, at least until you manage to retrieve Professor Slughorns memory for us. Ten years separates Hokey’s memory and this one, ten years during which we can only guess at what Lord Voldemort was doing. . . ." Harry got to his feet once more as Dumledore emptied the last memory into the Pensieve.
"Whose memory is it?" he asked. "Mine," said Dumledore.
And Harry dived after Dumledore through the shifting silver mass, landing in the very office he had just left. There was Fawkes slumering happily on his perch, and there ehind the desk was Dumledore, who looked very similar to the Dumledore standing eside Harry, though oth hands were whole and undamaged and his face was, perhaps, a little less lined. The one difference etween the present-day office and this one was that it was snowing in the past; luish flecks were drifting past the window in the dark and uilding up on the outside ledge.
The younger Dumledore seemed to e waiting for something, and sure enough, moments after their arrival, there was a knock on the door and he said, "Enter."
Harry let out a hastily stifled gasp. Voldemort had entered the room. His features were not those Harry had seen emerge from the great stone cauldron almost two years ago: They were not as snake-like, the eyes were not yet scarlet, the face not yet masklike, and yet he was no longer handsome Tom Riddle. It was as though his features had een urned and lurred; they were waxy and oddly distorted, and the whites of the eyes now had a permanently loody look, though the pupils were not yet the slits that Harry knew they would ecome. He was wearing a long lack cloak, and his face was as pale as the snow glistening on his shoulders.
The Dumledore ehind the desk showed no sign of surprise. Evidently this visit had een made y appointment.
"Good evening, Tom," said Dumledore easily. "Wont you sit down?"
"Thank you," said Voldemort, and he took the seat to which Dumledore had gestured -- the very seat, y the looks of it, that Harry had just vacated in the present. "I heard that you had ecome headmaster," he said, and his voice was slightly higher and colder than it had een. "A worthy choice."
"I am glad you approve," said Dumledore, smiling. "May I offer you a drink?"
"That would e welcome," said Voldemort. "I have come a long way."
Dumledore stood and swept over to the cainet where he now kept the Pensieve, ut which then was full of ottles. Having handed Voldemort a
golet of wine and poured one for himself, he returned to the seat ehind his desk. . "So, Tom ... to what do I owe the pleasure?"
Voldemort did not answer at once, ut merely sipped his wine.
"They do not call me Tom anymore," he said. "These days, 1 am known as --"
"I know what you are known as," said Dumledore, smiling, pleasantly. "But to me, Im afraid, you will always e Tom Riddle. It is one of the irritating things aout old teachers. I am afraid that they never quite forget their charges youthful eginnings."
He raised his glass as though toasting Voldemort, whose face remained expressionless. Nevertheless, Harry felt the atmosphere in the room change sutly: Dumledores refusal to use Voldemort’s chosen name was a refusal to allow Voldemort to dictate the terms of the meeting, and Harry could tell that Voldemort took it as such.
"I am surprised you have remained here so long," said Voldemort after a short pause. "I always wondered why a wizard such as yourself never wished to leave school."
"Well," said Dumledore, still smiling, "to a wizard such as myself, there can e nothing more important than passing on ancient skills, helping hone young minds. If I rememer correctly, you once saw the attraction of teaching too."
"I see it still," said Voldemort. "I merely wondered why you -- who are so often asked for advice y the Ministry, and who have twice, I think, een offered the post of Minister --"
"Three times at the last count, actually," said Dumledore. "But the Ministry never attracted me as a career. Again, something we have in common, I think."
Voldemort inclined his head, unsmiling, and took another sip of wine. Dumledore did not reak the silence that stretched etween them now, ut waited, with a look of pleasant expectancy, for Voldemort to talk first.
"I have returned," he said, after a little while, "later, perhaps, than Professor Dippet expected . . . ut I have returned, nevertheless, to request again what he once told me I was too young to have. I have come to you to ask that you permit me to return to this castle, to teach. I think you must know that I have seen and done much since I left this place. I could show and tell your students things they can gain from no other wizard."
Dumledore considered Voldemort over the top of his own golet for a while efore speaking.
"Yes, I certainly do know that you have seen and done much since leaving us," he said quietly. "Rumors of your doings have reached your old school, Tom. I should e sorry to elieve half of them."
Voldemorts expression remained impassive as he said, "Greatness inspires envy, envy engenders spite, spite spawns lies. You must know this, Dumledore."
"You call it greatness, what you have een doing, do you?" asked Dumledore delicately.
"Certainly," said Voldemort, and his eyes seemed to urn red. "I have experimented; I have pushed the oundaries of magic further, perhaps, than they have ever een pushed --"
"Of some kinds of magic," Dumledore corrected him quietly. "Of some. Of others, you remain . . . forgive me . . . woefully ignorant."
For the first time, Voldemort smiled. It was a taut leer, an evil thing, more threatening than a look of rage.
"The old argument," he said softly. "But nothing I have seen in the world has supported your famous pronouncements that love is more powerful than my kind of magic, Dumledore."
"Perhaps you have een looking in the wrong places," suggested Dumledore.
"Well, then, what etter place to start my fresh researches than here, at Hogwarts?" said Voldemort. "Will you let me return? Will you let me share
my knowledge with your students? I place myself and my talents at your disposal. I am yours to command."
Dumledore raised his eyerows. "And what will ecome of those whom you command? What will happen to those who call themselves -- or so rumor has it -- the Death Eaters?"
Harry could tell that Voldemort had not expected Dumledore to know this name; he saw Voldemort’s eyes flash red again and the slitlike nostrils flare.
"My friends," he said, after a moments pause, "will carry on without me, I am sure."
"I am glad to hear that you consider them friends," said Dumledore. "I was under the impression that they are more in the order of servants."
"You are mistaken," said Voldemort.
"Then if I were to go to the Hogs Head tonight, I would not find a group of them -- Nott, Rosier, Mulder, Dolohov -- awaiting your return? Devoted friends indeed, to travel this far with you on a snowy night, merely to wish you luck as you attempted to secure a teaching post."
There could e no dout that Dumledores detailed knowledge of those with whom he was traveling was even less welcome to Voldemort; however, he rallied almost at once.
"You are omniscient as ever, Dumledore."
"Oh no, merely friendly with the local armen," said Dumledore lightly. "Now, Tom . . ."
Dumledore set down his empty glass and drew himself up in his seat, the tips of his fingers together in a very characteristic gesture.
"Let us speak openly. Why have you come here tonight, surrounded y henchmen, to request a jo we oth know you do not want?"
Voldemort looked coldly surprised. "A jo I do not want? On the contrary, Dumledore, I want it very much."
"Oh, you want to come ack to Hogwarts, ut you do not want to teach any more than you wanted to when you were eighteen. What is it youre after, Tom? Why not try an open request for once?"
Voldemort sneered. "If you do not want to give me a jo --"
"Of course I dont," said Dumledore. "And I dont think for a moment you expected me to. Nevertheless, you came here, you asked, you must have had a purpose."
Voldemort stood up. He looked less like Tom Riddle than ever, his features thick with rage. "This is your final word?"
"It is," said Dumledore, also standing.
"Then we have nothing more to say to each other."
"No, nothing," said Dumledore, and a great sadness filled his face. "The time is long gone when I could frighten you with a urning wardroe and force you to make repayment for your crimes. But I wish I could, Tom. ... I wish I could. . . ."
For a second, Harry was on the verge of shouting a pointless warning: He was sure that Voldemorts hand had twitched toward his pocket and his wand; ut then the moment had passed, Voldemort had turned away, the door was closing, and he was gone.
Harry felt Dumledores hand close over his arm again and moments later, they were standing together on almost the same spot, ut there was no snow uilding on the window ledge, and Dumledores hand was lackened and dead-looking once more.
"Why?" said Harry at once, looking up into Dumledores face. "Why did he come ack? Did you ever find out?"
"I have ideas," said Dumledore, "ut no more than that."
"What ideas, sir?"
"I shall tell you, Harry, when you have retrieved that memory from Professor Slughorn," said Dumledore.
"When you have that last piece of the jigsaw, everything will, I hope, e clear ... to oth of us."
Harry was still urning with curiosity and even though Dumledore had walked to the door and was holding it open for him, he did not move at once.
"Was he after the Defense Against the Dark Arts jo again, sir? He didnt say. ..."
"Oh, he definitely wanted the Defense Against the Dark Arts jo," said Dumledore. "The aftermath of our little meeting proved that. You see, we have never een ale to keep a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher for longer than a year since I refused the post to Lord Voldemort."
Chapter 21: The Unknowale Room
Harry wracked his rains over the next week as to how he was to persuade Slughorn to hand over the true memory, ut nothing in the nature of a rain wave occurred and he was reduced to doing what he did increasingly these days when at a loss: poring over his Potions ook, hoping that the Prince would have scriled something useful in a margin, as he had done so many times efore.
"You wont find anything in there," said Hermione firmly, late on Sunday evening.
"Dont start, Hermione," said Harry. "If it hadnt een for the Prince, Ron wouldnt e sitting here now."
"He would if youd just listened to Snape in our first year," said Hermione dismissively.
Harry ignored her. He had just found an incantation "Sectum-sempra!" scrawled in a margin aove the intriguing words "For enemies," and was itching to try it out, ut thought it est not to in front of Hermione. Instead, he surreptitiously folded down the corner of the page. They were sitting eside the fire in the common room; the only other people awake were fellow sixth years. There had een a cer-tain amount of excitement earlier when they had come ack from dinner to find a new sign on the notice oard that announced the date for their Apparition Test. Those who would e seventeen on or efore the first test date, the twenty-first of April, had the
option of signing up for additional practice sessions, which would take place (heavily supervised) in Hogsmeade.
Ron had panicked on reading this notice; he had still not man-aged to Apparate and feared he would not e ready for the test. Hermione, who had now achieved Apparition twice, was a little more confident, ut Harry, who would not e seventeen for an-other four months, could not take the test whether ready or not.
"At least you can Apparate, though!" said Ron tensely. "Youll have no troule come July!"
"Ive only done it once," Harry reminded him; he had finally managed to disappear and rematerialize inside his hoop during their previous lesson.
Having wasted a lot of time worrying aloud aout Apparition, Ron was now struggling to finish a viciously difficult essay for Snape that Harry and Hermione had already completed. Harry fully expected to receive low marks on his, ecause he had disagreed with Snape on the est way to tackle dementors, ut he did not care: Slughorns memory was the most important thing to him now.
"Im telling you, the stupid Prince isnt going to e ale to help you with this, Harry!" said Hermione, more loudly. "Theres only one way to force someone to do what you want, and thats the Imperius Curse, which is illegal --"
"Yeah, I know that, thanks," said Harry, not looking up from the ook. "Thats why Im looking for something different. Dumledorf says Veritaserum wont do it, ut there might e something else, a potion or a spell. . . ."
"Youre going aout it the wrong way," said Hermione. "Only you can get the memory, Dumledore says. That must mean you can persuade Slughorn where other people can’t. Its not a question of slipping him a potion, anyone could do that --"
"How do you spell elligerent?" said Ron, shaking his quill very hard while staring at his parchment. "It cant e B -- U -- M --"
"No, it isnt," said Hermione, pulling Rons essay toward her. "And augury doesnt egin O -- R -- G either. What kind of quill are you using?"
"Its one of Fred and Georges Spell-Check ones, ut I think the charm must e wearing off."
"Yes, it must," said Hermione, pointing at the title of his essay, "ecause we were asked how wed deal with dementors, not Dug-ogs, and I dont rememer you changing your name to Roonil Wazli’ either."
"Ah no!" said Ron, staring horror-struck at the parchment. "Dont say Ill have to write the whole thing out again!"
"Its okay, we can fix it," said Hermione, pulling the essay toward her and taking out her wand.
"I love you, Hermione," said Ron, sinking ack in his chair, ru-ing his eyes wearily. Hermione turned faintly pink, ut merely said, "Dont let Lavender hear you saying that."
"1 wont," said Ron into his hands. "Or maye I will, then shell ditch me."
"Why dont you ditch her if you want to finish it?" asked Harry.
"You havent ever chucked anyone, have you?" said Ron. "You and Cho just --"
"Sort of fell apart, yeah," said Harry.
"Wish that would happen with me and Lavender," said Ron gloomily, watching Hermione silently tapping each of his mis-spelled words with the end of her wand, so that they corrected themselves on the page. "But the more I hint I want to finish it, the tighter she holds on. Its like going out with the giant squid."
"There," said Hermione, some twenty minutes later, handing ack Rons essay.
"Thanks a million," said Ron. "Can I orrow your quill for the conclusion?" Harry, who had found nothing useful in the Half-Blood
Princes notes so far, looked around; the three of them were now the only ones left in the common room, Seamus having just gone up to ed cursing Snape and his essay. The only sounds were the crackling of the fire and Ron scratching out one last paragraph on dementors using Hermiones quill. Harry had just closed the Half-Blood Princes ook, yawning, when --
Crack!
Hermione let out a little shriek; Ron spilled ink all over his freshly completed essay, and Harry said, "Kreacher!"
The house-elf owed low and addressed his own gnarled toes. "Master said he wanted regular reports on what the Malfoy oy is doing, so Kreacher has come to give--"
Crack!
Doy appeared alongside Kreacher, his tea-cozy hat askew. "Doy has een helping too, Harry Potter!" he squeaked, cast-ing Kreacher a resentful look. "And Kreacher ought to tell Doy when he is coming to see Harry Potter so they can make their re-ports together!"
"What is this?" asked Hermione, still looking shocked y these sudden appearances. "Whats going on, Harry?" Harry hesitated efore answering, ecause he had not told Her-mione aout setting Kreacher and Doy to tail Malfoy; house-elves were always such a touchy suject with her.
"Well. . . theyve een following Malfoy for me," he said.
"Night and day," croaked Kreacher.
"Doy has not slept for a week, Harry Potter!" said Doy proudly, swaying where he stood. Hermione looked indignant.
"You havent slept, Doy? But surely, Harry, you didnt tell him not to --"
"No, of course I didnt," said Harry quickly. "Doy, you can sleep, all right? But has either of you found out anything?" he has-tened to ask, efore Hermione could intervene again.
"Master Malfoy moves with a noility that efits his pure lood," croaked Kreacher at once. "His features recall the fine ones of my mistress and his manners are those of--"
"Draco Malfoy is a ad oy!" squeaked Doy angrily. "A ad oy who -- who --" He shuddered from the tassel of his tea cozy to the toes of his socks and then ran at the fire, as though aout to dive into it. Harry, to whom this was not entirely unexpected, caught him around the middle and held him fast. For a few seconds Doy struggled, then went limp.
"Thank you, Harry Potter," he panted. "Doy still finds it dif-ficult to speak ill of his old masters." Harry released him; Doy straightened his tea
cozy and said defiantly to Kreacher, "But Kreacher should know that Draco Malfoy is not a good master to a house-elf!"
"Yeah, we dont need to hear aout you eing in love with Malfoy," Harry told Kreacher. "Lets fast forward to where hes actually een going."
Kreacher owed again, looking furious, and then said, "Master Malfoy eats in the Great Hall, he sleeps in a dormitory in the dun-geons, he attends his classes in a variety of--"
"Doy, you tell me," said Harry, cutting across Kreacher. "Has he een going anywhere he shouldnt have?"
"Harry Potter, sir," squeaked Doy, his great orlike eyes shining in the firelight, "the Malfoy oy is reaking no rules that Doy can discover, ut he is still keen to avoid detection. He has een making regular visits to the seventh floor with a variety of other students, who keep watch for him while he enters --"
"The Room of Requirement!" said Harry, smacking himself hard on the forehead with Advanced Potion-Making. Hermione and Ron stared at him. "Thats where hes een sneaking off to! Thats where hes doing... whatever hes doing! And I et thats why hes een disappearing off the map -- come to think of it, Ive never seen the Room of Requirement on there!"
"Maye the Marauders never knew the room was there," said Ron.
"I think itll e part of the magic of the room," said Hermione. "If you need it to e unplottale, it will e."
"Doy, have you managed to get in to have a look at what Malfoys doing?" said Harry eagerly.
"No, Harry Potter, that is impossile," said Doy.
"No, its not," said Harry at once. "Malfoy got into our head-quarters there last year, so Ill e ale to get in and spy on him, no prolem."
"But I dont think you will, Harry," said Hermione slowly. "Mal-foy already knew exactly how we were using the room, didnt he, ecause that stupid Marietta had laed. He needed the room to ecome the headquarters of the D.A., so it did. But you dont know what the room ecomes when Malfoy goes in there, so you dont know what to ask it to transform into."
"Therell e a way around that," said Harry dismissively. "Youve done rilliantly, Doy."
"Kreachers done well too," said Hermione kindly; ut far from looking grateful, Kreacher averted his huge, loodshot eyes and croaked at the ceiling, "The Mudlood is speaking to Kreacher, Kreacher will pretend he cannot hear --"
"Get out of it," Harry snapped at him, and Kreacher made one last deep ow and Disapparated. "Youd etter go and get some sleep too, Doy."
"Thank you, Harry Potter, sir!" squeaked Doy happily, and he too vanished.
"How good is this?" said Harry enthusiastically, turning to Ron and Hermione the moment the room was elf-free again. "We know where Malfoys going! Weve got him cornered now!"
"Yeah, its great," said Ron glumly, who was attempting to mop up the sodden mass of ink chat had recently een an almost com-pleted essay. Hermione pulled it toward her and egan siphoning the ink off with her wand.
"But whats all this aout him going up there with a variety of students?" said Hermione. "How many people are in on it? You wouldnt think hed trust lots of them to know what hes do-ing---"
"Yeah, that is weird," said Harry, frowning. "I heard him telling Crae it wasnt Craes usiness what he was doing... so whats he telling all these... all these..." Harrys voice tailed away; he was staring at the fire. "God, Ive een stupid," he said quietly. "Its ovious, isnt it? There was a great vat of it down in the dungeon. . . . He could’ve nicked some any time during that lesson. . . ."
"Nicked what?" said Ron.
"Polyjuice Potion. He stole some of the Polyjuice Potion Slug-horn showed us in our first Potions lesson... There arent a whole variety of students standing guard for Malfoy... its just Crae and Goyle as usual. ...Yeah, it all fits!" said Harry, jumping up and starting to pace in front of the fire. "Theyre stupid enough to do what theyre told even if he wont tell them what hes up to, ut he doesnt want them to e seen lurking around outside the Room of Requirement, so hes got them taking Polyjuice to make them look like other people... Those two girls I saw him with when he missed Quidditch -- ha! Crae and Goyle!"
"Do you mean to say," said Hermione in a hushed voice, "that that little girl whose scales I repaired -- ?"
"Yeah, of course!" said Harry loudly, staring at her. "Of course! Malfoy mustve een inside the room at the time, so she -- what am I talking aout? -- he dropped the scales to tell Malfoy not to corne out, ecause there was someone there! And there was that girl who dropped the toadspawn too! Weve een walking past him all the time and not realizing it!"
"Hes got Crae and Goyle transforming into girls?" guffawed Ron. "Blimey... no wonder they dont look too happy these days. Im surprised they dont tell him to stuff it."
"Well, they wouldnt, would they, if hes shown them his Dark Mark?" said Harry.
"Hmmm... the Dark Mark we dont know exists," said Hermi-one skeptically, rolling up Rons dried essay efore it could come to any more harm and handing it to him.
"Well see" said Harry confidently.
"Yes, we will," Hermione said, getting to her feet and stretching. "But, Harry, efore you get all excited, I still dont think youll e ale to get into the Room of Requirement without knowing whats there first. And I dont think you should forget" -- she heaved her ag onto her shoulder and gave him a very serious look -- "that what youre supposed to e concentrating on is getting that memory from Slughorn. Good night."
Harry watched her go, feeling slightly disgruntled. Once the door to the girls dormitories had closed ehind her he rounded on Ron. "What dyou think?"
"Wish I could Disapparate like a house-elf," said Ron, staring at the spot where Doy had vanished. "Id have that Apparition Test in the ag."
Harry did not sleep well that night. He lay awake for what felt like hours, wondering how Malfoy was using the Room of Requirement and what he, Harry, would see when he went in there the following day, for whatever Hermione said, Harry was sure that if Malfoy had-=- een ale to see the headquarters of the D.A., he would e ale to see Malfoys, what could it e? A meeting place? A hideout? A ston room? A workshop? Harrys mind worked feverishly and his dreams, when he finally fell asleep, were roken
and distured y images of Malfoy, who turned into Slughorn, who turned into Snape...
Harry was in a state of great anticipation over reakfast the following morning; he had a free period efore Defense Against the Dark Arts and was determined to spend it trying to get into the Room of Requirement. Hermione was rather ostentatiously showing no interest in his whispered plans for forcing entry into the room, which irritated Harry, ecause he thought she might e a lot of help if she wanted to.
"Look," he said quietly, leaning forward and putting a hand on the Daily Prophet, which she had just removed from a post owl, to stop her from opening it and vanishing ehind it. "I havent for-gotten aout Slughorn, ut I havent got a clue how to get that memory off him, and until I get a rain wave why shouldnt I find out what Malfoys doing?"
"Ive already told you, you need to persuade Slughorn," said Her-mione. "Its not a question of tricking him or ewitching him, or Dumledore could have done it in a second. Instead of messing around outside the Room of Requirement" -- she jerked the Prophet out from under Harrys hand and unfolded it to look at the front page -- "you should go and find Slughorn and start appeal-ing to his etter nature."
"Anyone we know -- ?" asked Ron, as Hermione scanned the headlines.
"Yes!" said Hermione, causing oth Harry and Ron to gag on their reakfast. "But its all right, hes not dead -- its Mundungus, hes een
arrested and sent to Azkaan! Something to do with impersonating an Inferius during an attempted urglary, and someone called Octavius Pepper has vanished. Oh, and how horrile, a nine-year-old oy has een arrested for trying to kill his grandparents, they think he was under the Imperius Curse."
They finished their reakfast in silence. Hermione set off imme-diately for Ancient Runes; Ron for the common room, where he still had to finish his conclusion on Snapes dementor essay, and Harry for the corridor on the seventh floor and the stretch of wall opposite the tapestry of Barnaas the Barmy teaching trolls to do allet.
Harry slipped on his Invisiility Cloak once he had found an empty passage, ut he need not have othered. When he reached his destination he found it deserted. Harry was not sure whether his chances of getting inside the room were etter with Malfoy in-side it or out, ut at least his first attempt was not going to e complicated y the presence of Crae or Goyle pretending to e an eleven-year-old girl.
He closed his eyes as he approached the place where the Room of Requirements door was concealed. He knew what he had to do; he had ecome most accomplished at it last year. Concentrating with all his might he thought, "I need to see what Malfoys doing in here... I need to see what Malfoys doing in here... I need to see what Malfoys doing in here..."
Three times he walked past the door; then, his heart pounding with excitement, he opened his eyes and faced it -- ut he was still looking at a
stretch of mundanely lank wall. He moved forward and gave it an experimental push. The stone remained solid and unyielding.
"Okay," said Harry aloud. "Okay... I thought the wrong thing..." He pondered for a moment then set off again, eyes closed, con-centrating as hard as he could. "I need to see the place where Malfoy keeps coming secretly... I need to see the place where Malfoy keeps coming secretly..." After three walks past, he opened his eyes expectantly.
There was no door.
"Oh, come off it," he told the wall irritaly. "That was a clear instruction. Fine." He thought hard for several minutes efore striding off once more. "I need you to ecome the place you ecome for Draco Malfoy..."
He did not immediately open his eyes when he had finished his patrolling; he was listening hard, as though he might hear the door pop into existence. He heard nothing, however, except the distant twittering of irds outside. He opened his eyes.
There was still no door.
Harry swore. Someone screamed. He looked around to see a gaggle of first years running ack around the corner, apparently un-der the impression that they had just encountered a particularly foulmouthed ghost.
Harry tried every variation of "I need to see what Draco Malfoy is doing inside you" that he could think of for a whole hour, at the end of which he was forced to concede that Hermione might have had a point: The room simply did not want to open for him. Frus-trated and annoyed, he set off for Defense Against the Dark Arts, pulling off his Invisiility Cloak and stuffing it into his ag as he went.
"Late again, Potter," said Snape coldly, as Harry hurried into the candlelit classroom. "Ten points from Gryfrindor." Harry scowled at Snape as he flung himself into the seat eside Ron. Half the class were still on their feet, taking out ooks and orga-nizing their things; he could not e much later than any of them.
"Before we start, I want your dementor essays," said Snape, wav-ing his wand carelessly, so that twenty-five scrolls of parchment soared into the air and landed in a neat pile on his desk. "And I hope for your sakes they are etter than the tripe I had to endure on resisting the Imperius Curse. Now, if you will all open your ooks to page -- what is it, Mr. Finnigan?"
"Sir," said Seamus, "Ive een wondering, how do you tell the difference etween an Inferius and a ghost? Because there was something in the paper aout an Inferius --"
"No, there wasnt," said Snape in a ored voice.
"But sir, I heard people talking --"
"If you had actually read the article in question, Mr. Finnigan, you would have known that the so-called Inferius was nothing ut a smelly sneak thief y the name of Mundungus Fletcher."
"I thought Snape and Mundungus were on the same side," mut-tered Harry to Ron and Hermione. "Shouldnt he e upset Mun-dungus has een arrest --"
"But Potter seems to have a lot to say on the suject," said Snape, pointing suddenly at the ack of the room, his lack eyes fixed on Harry. "Let us ask Potter how we would tell the difference etween an Inferius and a ghost."
The whole class looked around at Harry, who hastily tried to recall what Dumledore had told him the night that they had gone to visit Slughorn. "Er -- well -- ghosts are transparent --" he said.
"Oh, very good," interrupted Snape, his lip curling. "Yes, it in easy to see that nearly six years of magical education have not een wasted on you, Potter. Ghosts are transparent."
Pansy Parkinson let out a high-pitched giggle. Several other peo-ple were smirking. Harry took a deep reath and continued calmly, though his insides were oiling, "Yeah, ghosts are transparent, ut Inferi are dead odies, arent they? So theyd e solid --"
"A five-year-old could have told us as much," sneered Snape. "The Inferius is a corpse that has een reanimated y a Dark wiz-ards spells. It is
not alive, it is merely used like a puppet to do the wizards idding. A ghost, as I trust that you are all aware y now, is the imprint of a departed soul left upon the earth, and of course, as Potter so wisely tells us, transparent. "
"Well, what Harry said is the most useful if were trying to tell them apart!" said Ron. "When we come face-to-face with one down a dark alley, were going to e having a look to see if its solid, arent we, were not going to e asking, Excuse me, are you the imprint of a departed soul?" There was a ripple of laughter, instantly quelled y the look Snape gave the class.
"Another ten points from Gryffindor," said Snape. "I would ex-pect nothing more sophisticated from you, Ronald Weasley, the oy so solid he cannot Apparate half an inch across a room."
"No!" whispered Hermione, graing Harrys arm as he opened his mouth furiously. "Theres no point, youll just end up in deten-tion again, leave it!"
"Now open your ooks to page two hundred and thirteen," said Snape, smirking a little, "and read the first two paragraphs on the Cruciatus Curse."
Ron was very sudued all through the class. When the ell sounded at the end of the lesson, Lavender caught up with Ron and Harry (Hermione mysteriously melted out of sight as she ap-proached) and aused Snape hotly for his jie aout Rons Appari-tion, ut this seemed to merely irritate Ron, and he shook her off y making a detour into the oys athroom with Harry.
"Snapes right, though, isnt he?" said Ron, after staring into a cracked mirror for a minute or two. "I dunno whether its worth me taking the test. I just cant get the hang of Apparition."
"You might as well do the extra practice sessions in Hogsmeade and see where they get you," said Harry reasonaly. "Itll e more interesting than trying to get into a stupid hoop anyway. Then, if youre still not -- you know -- as good as youd like to e, you can postpone the test, do it with me over the summer -- Myrtle, this is the oys athroom!"
The ghost of a girl had risen out of the toilet in a cuicle ehind them and was now floating in midair, staring at them through thick, white, round glasses. "Oh," she said glumly. "Its you two."
"Who were you expecting?" said Ron, looking at her in the mirror.
"Noody," said Myrtle, picking moodily at a spot on her chin. "He said hed come ack and see me, ut then you said youd pop in and visit me too" -- she gave Harry a reproachful look -- "and I havent seen you for months and months. Ive learned not to ex-pect too much from oys."
"I thought you lived in that girls athroom?" said Harry, who had een careful to give the place a wide erth for some years now.
"I do," she said, with a sulky little shrug, "ut that doesnt mean I cant visit other places. I came and saw you in your ath once, rememer?"
"Vividly," said Harry.
"But I thought he liked me," she said plaintively. "Maye if you two left, hed come ack again. We had lots in common. Im sure he felt it."
And she looked hopefully toward the door. "When you say you had lots in common," said Ron, sounding rather amused now, "dyou mean he lives in an S-end too?"
"No," said Myrtle defiantly, her voice echoing loudly around the old tiled athroom. "I mean hes sensitive, people ully him too, and he feels lonely and hasnt got anyody to talk to, and hes not afraid to show his feelings and cry!"
"Theres een a oy in here crying?" said Harry curiously. "A young oy?"
"Never you mind!" said Myrtle, her small, leaky eyes fixed on Ron, who was now definitely grinning. "I promised I wouldnt tell anyone, and Ill take his secret to the --"
"-- not the grave, surely?" said Ron with a snort. "The sewers, maye." Myrtle gave a howl of rage and dived ack into the toilet, caus-ing water to slop over the sides and onto the floor. Goading Myrtle seemed to have put fresh heart into Ron. "Youre right," he said, swinging his schoolag ack over his shoulder, "Ill do the practice sessions in Hogsmeade efore I de-cide aout taking the test."
And so the following weekend, Ron joined Hermione and the rest of the sixth years who would turn seventeen in time to take the test in a fortnight. Harry felt rather jealous watching them all get ready to go into the village; he missed making trips there, and it was a particularly fine spring day, one of the first clear skies they had seen in a long time. However, he had decided to use the time to attempt another assault on the Room of Requirement.
"Youd do etter," said Hermione, when he confided this plan to Ron and her in the entrance hall, "to go straight to Slughorns of-fice and try and get that memory from him."
"Ive een trying!" said Harry crossly, which was perfectly true. He had lagged ehind after every Potions lesson that week in an at-tempt to corner Slughorn, ut the Potions master always left the dungeon so fast that Harry had not een ale to catch him. Twice, Harry had gone to his office and knocked, ut received no reply, though on the second occasion he was sure he had heard the quickly stifled sounds of an old gramophone.
"He doesnt want to talk to me, Hermione! He can tell Ive een trying to get him on his own again, and hes not going to let it happen!"
"Well, youve just got to keep at it, havent you?"
The short queue of people waiting to file past Filch, who was do-ing his usual prodding act with the Secrecy Sensor, moved forward a few steps and Harry did not answer in case he was overheard y the caretaker. He wished
Ron and Hermione oth luck, then turned and climed the marle staircase again, determined, whatever Her-mione said, to devote an hour or two to the Room of Requirement.
Once out of sight of the entrance hall, Harry pulled the Ma-rauders Map and his Invisiility Cloak from his ag. Having concealed himself, he tapped the map, murmured, "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good," and scanned it carefully.
As it was Sunday morning, nearly all the students were inside their various common rooms, the Gryffindors in one tower, the Ravenclaws in another, the Slytherins in the dungeons, and the Hufflepuffs in the asement near the kitchens. Here and there a stray person meandered around the lirary or up a corridor. There were a few people out in the grounds, and there, alone in the seventh-floor corridor, was Gregory Goyle. There was no sign of the Room of Requirement, ut Harry was not worried aout that; if Goyle was standing guard outside it, the room was open, whether the map was aware of it or not. He therefore sprinted up the stairs, slowing down only when he reached the corner into the corridor, when he egan to creep, very slowly, toward the very same little girl, clutching her heavy rass scales, that Hermione had so kindly helped a fortnight efore. He waited until he was right e-hind her efore ending very low and whispering, "Hello...youre very pretty, arent you?"
Goyle gave a high-pitched scream of terror, threw the scales up into the air, and sprinted away, vanishing from sight long efore the sound of the scales smashing had stopped echoing around the corri-dor. Laughing, Harry
turned to contemplate the lank wall ehind which, he was sure, Draco Malfoy was now standing frozen, aware that someone unwelcome was out there, ut not daring to make an appearance. It gave Harry a most agreeale feeling of power as he tried to rememer what form of words he had not yet tried.
Yet this hopeful mood did not last long. Half an hour later, hav-ing tried many more variations of his request to see what Malfoy was up to, the wall was just as doorless as ever. Harry felt frustrated eyond elief-=Malfoy might e just feet away from him, and there was still not the tiniest shred of evidence as to what he was doing in there. Losing his patience completely, Harry ran at the wall and kicked it.
"OUCH!"
He thought he might have roken his toe; as he clutched it and hopped on one foot, the Invisiility Cloak slipped off him.
"Harry?"
He spun around, one-legged, and toppled over. There, to his utter astonishment, was Tonks, walking toward him as though she frequently strolled up this corridor.
"What’re you doing here?" he said, scramling to his feet again; why did she always have to find him lying on the floor?
"I came to see Dumledore," said Tonks. Harry thought she looked terrile: thinner than usual, her mouse-colored hair lank.
"His office isnt here," said Harry, "its round the other side of the castle, ehind the gargoyle --"
"I know," said Tonks. "Hes not there. Apparently hes gone away again."
"Has he?" said Harry, putting his ruised foot gingerly ack on the floor. "Hey -- you dont know where he goes, I suppose?"
"No," said Tonks.
"What did you want to see him aout?"
"Nothing in particular," said Tonks, picking, apparently uncon-sciously, at the sleeve of her roe. "I just thought he might know whats going on. Ive heard rumors... people getting hurt."
"Yeah, I know, its all een in the papers," said Harry. "That lit-tle kid trying to kill his --"
"The Prophets often ehind the times," said Tonks, who didnt seem to e listening to him. "You havent had any letters from any-one in the Order recently?"
"No one from the Order writes to me anymore," said Harry, "not since Sirius --" He saw that her eyes had filled with tears.
"Im sorry," he muttered awkwardly. "I mean... I miss him, as well."
"What?" said Tonks lankly, as though she had not heard him. "Well. Ill see you around, Harry."
And she turned aruptly and walked ack down the corridor, leaving Harry to stare after her. After a minute or so, he pulled the Invisiility Cloak on again and resumed his efforts to get into the Room of Requirement, ut his heart was not in it. Finally, a hollow feeling in his stomach and the knowledge that Ron and Hermione would soon e ack for lunch made him aandon the attempt and leave the corridor to Malfoy who, hopefully, would e too afraid to leave for some hours to come.
He found Ron and Hermione in the Great Hall, already halfway through an early lunch.
"I did it -- well, kind of!" Ron told Harry enthusiastically when he caught sight of him. "I was supposed to e Apparating to out-side Madam Puddifoots Tea Shop and I overshot it a it, ended up near Scrivenshafts, ut at least I moved!"
"Good one," said Harry. "Howd you do, Hermione?"
"Oh, she was perfect, oviously," said Ron, efore Hermione could answer. "Perfect delieration, divination, and desperation or whatever the hell it is -- we all went for a quick drink in the Three Broomsticks after and you shouldve heard Twycross going on aout her -- Ill e surprised if he doesnt pop the question soon --"
"And what aout you?" asked Hermione, ignoring Ron. "Have you een up at the Room of Requirement all this time?"
"Yep," said Harry. "And guess who I ran into up there? Tonks!"
"Tonks?" repeated Ron and Hermione together, looking surprised.
"Yeah, she said shed come to visit Dumledore."
"If you ask me," said Ron once Harry had finished descriing his conversation with Tonks, "shes cracking up a it. Losing her nerve after what happened at the Ministry."
"It’s a it odd," said Hermione, who for some reason looked very concerned. "Shes supposed to e guarding the school, why she suddenly aandoning her post to come and see Dumledore when hes not even here?"
"I had a thought," said Harry tentatively. He felt strange aout voicing it; this was much more Hermione’s territory than his. "You dont think she can have een... you know... in love with Sirius?"
Hermione stared at him. "What on earth makes you say that?"
"I dunno," said Harry, shrugging, "ut she was nearly crying when I mentioned his name, and her Patronus is a ig four-legged thing now. I wondered whether it hadnt ecome... you know... him."
"Its a thought," said Hermione slowly. "But I still dont know why shed e ursting into the castle to see Dumledore, if thats re-ally why she was here."
"Goes ack to what I said, doesnt it?" said Ron, who was now shoveling mashed potato into his mouth. "Shes gone a it funny. Lost her nerve. Women," he said wisely to Harry, "theyre easily upset."
"And yet," said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, "I dout youd find a woman who sulked for half an hour ecause Madam Rosmerta didnt laugh at their joke aout the hag, the Healer, and the Mimulus mimletonia."
Ron scowled.
Chapter 22: After the Burial
Patches of right lue sky were eginning to appear over the castle turrets, ut these signs of approaching summer did not lift Harrys mood. He had een thwarted, oth in his attempts to find out what Malfoy was doing, and in his efforts to start a conversation with Slughorn that might lead, somehow, to Slughorn hand-ing over the memory he had apparently suppressed for decades.
"For the last time, just forget aout Malfoy," Hermione told Harry firmly.
They were sitting with Ron in a sunny corner of the courtyard after lunch. Hermione and Ron were oth clutching a Ministry of Magic leaflet -- Common Apparition Mistakes and How to Avoid Them -- for they were taking their tests that very afternoon, ut y and large the leaflets had not proved soothing to the nerves.
Ron gave a start and tried to hide ehind Hermione as a girl came around the corner.
"It isnt Lavender," said Hermione wearily.
"Oh, good," said Ron, relaxing.
"Harry Potter?" said the girl. "I was asked to give you this."
"Thanks..."
Harrys heart sank as he took the small scroll of parchment. Once the girl was out of earshot he said, "Dumledore said we wouldnt e having any more lessons until I got the memory!"
"Maye he wants to check on how youre doing?" suggested Hermione, as Harry unrolled the parchment; ut rather than finding Dumledores long, narrow, slanted writing he saw an untidy sprawl, very difficult to read due to the presence of large lotches on the parchment where the ink had run.
Dear Harry, Ron and Hermione!
Aragog died last night. Harry and Ron, you met him and you know how special he was.
Hermione, I know youd have liked him.
It would mean a lot to me if youd nip down for the urial later this evening.
Im planning on doing it round dusk, that was his favorite time of day.
I know youre not supposed to e out that late, ut you can use the cloak.
Wouldnt ask, ut I cant face it alone.
Hagrid
"Look at this," said Harry, handing the note to Hermione. "Oh, for heavens sake," she said, scanning it quickly and passing it to Ron, who read it through looking increasingly incredulous. "Hes mental" he said furiously. "That thing told its mates to eat Harry and me! Told them to help themselves! And now Hagrid ex-pects us to go down there and cry over its horrile hairy ody!"
"Its not just that," said Hermione. "Hes asking us to leave the castle at night and he knows securitys a million times tighter and how much troule wed e in if we were caught."
"Weve een down to see him y night efore," said Harry.
"Yes, ut for something like this?" said Hermione. "Weve risked a lot to help Hagrid out, ut after all -- Aragogs dead. If it were a question of saving him --"
"-- Id want to go even less," said Ron firmly. "You didnt meet him, Hermione. Believe me, eing dead will have improved him a lot."
Harry took the note ack and stared down at all the inky lotches all over it. Tears had clearly fallen thick and fast upon the parchment. . . .
"Harry, you cant e thinking of going," said Hermione. "Its such a pointless thing to get detention for."
Harry sighed. "Yeah, I know," he said. "I spose Hagridll have to ury Aragog without us."
"Yes, he will," said Hermione, looking relieved. "Look, Potions will e almost empty this afternoon, with us all off doing our tests. . . . Try and soften Slughorn up a it then!"
"Fifty-seventh time lucky, you think?" said Harry itterly.
"Lucky," said Ron suddenly. "Harry, thats it -- get lucky!"
"What dyou mean?"
"Use your lucky potion!"
"Ron, thats -- thats it!" said Hermione, sounding stunned. "Of course! Why didnt I think of it?"
Harry stared at them oth. "Felix Felicis?" he said. "I dunno . . . I was sort of saving it. ..."
"What for?" demanded Ron incredulously.
"What on earth is more important than this memory, Harry?" asked Hermione.
Harry did not answer. The thought of that little golden ottle had hovered on the edges of his imagination for some time; vague and unformulated plans that involved Ginny splitting up with Dean, and Ron somehow eing happy to see her with a new oyfriend, had een fermenting in the depths of his rain, unacknowledged except during dreams or the twilight time etween sleeping and waking. . . .
"Harry? Are you still with us?" asked Hermione.
"Wha -- ? Yeah, of course," he said, pulling himself together. "Well. . . okay. If I cant get Slughorn to talk this afternoon, Ill take some Felix and have another go this evening."
"Thats decided, then," said Hermione riskly, getting to her feet and performing a graceful pirouette. "Destination . . . determina-tion . . . delieration . . ." she murmured.
"Oh, stop that," Ron egged her, "I feel sick enough as it is -- quick, hide me!"
"It isnt Lavender!" said Hermione impatiently, as another cou-ple of girls appeared in the courtyard and Ron dived ehind her.
"Cool," said Ron, peering over Hermiones shoulder to check. "Blimey, they dont look happy, do they?"
"Theyre the Montgomery sisters and of course they dont look happy, didnt you hear what happened to their little rother?" said Hermione.
"Im losing track of whats happening to everyones relatives, to e honest," said Ron.
"Well, their rother was attacked y a werewolf. The rumor is that their mother refused to help the Death Eaters. Anyway, the oy was only five and he died in St. Mungos, they couldnt save him."
"He died?" repeated Harry, shocked. "But surely werewolves dont kill, they just turn you into one of them?"
"They sometimes kill," said Ron, who looked unusually grave now. "Ive heard of it happening when the werewolf gets carried away."
"What was the werewolfs name?" said Harry quickly.
"Well, the rumor is that it was that Fenrir Greyack," said Hermione.
"I knew it -- the maniac who likes attacking kids, the one Lupin told me aout!" said Harry angrily.
Hermione looked at him leakly.
"Harry, youve got to get that memory," she said. "Its all aout stopping Voldemort, isnt it? These dreadful things that are hap-pening are all down to him. . . ."
The ell rang overhead in the castle and oth Hermione and Ron jumped to their feet, looking terrified.
"Youll do fine," Harry told them oth, as they headed toward the entrance hall to meet the rest of the people taking their Ap-parition Test. "Good luck."
"And you too!" said Hermione with a significant look, as Harry headed off to the dungeons.
There were only three of them in Potions that afternoon: Harry, Ernie, and Draco Malfoy.
"All too young to Apparate just yet?" said Slughorh genially, "Not turned seventeen yet?"
They shook their heads.
"Ah well," said Slughorn cheerily, "as were so few, well do something for fun. I want you all to rew me up something amusing!"
"That sounds good, sir," said Ernie sycophantically, ruing his hands together. Malfoy, on the other hand, did not crack a smile. "What do you mean, something amusing?" he said irritaly. "Oh, surprise me," said Slughorn airily.
Malfoy opened his copy of Advanced Potion-Making with a sulky expression. It could not have een plainer that he thought this les-son was a waste of time. Undoutedly, Harry thought, watching him over the top of his own ook, Malfoy was egrudging the time he could otherwise e spending in the Room of Requirement.
Was it his imagination, or did Malfoy, like Tonks, look thinner! Certainly he looked paler; his skin still had that grayish tinge, proaly ecause he so rarely saw daylight these days. But there was no air of smugness, excitement, or superiority; none of the swagger that he had had on the
Hogwarts Express, when he had oasted openly of the mission he had een given y Voldemort. . . . There could e only one conclusion, in Harrys opinion: The mission, whatever it was, was going adly.
Cheered y this thought, Harry skimmed through his copy of Advanced Potion-Making and found a heavily corrected Half-Blood Princes version of "An Elixir to Induce Euphoria," which seemed not only to meet Slughorns instructions, ut which might (Harrys heart leapt as the thought struck him) put Slughorn into such a good mood that he would e prepared to hand over that memory if Harry could persuade him to taste some. . . .
"Well, now, this looks asolutely wonderful," said Slughorn an hour and a half later, clapping his hands together as he stared down into the sunshine yellow contents of Harrys cauldron. "Euphoria, I take it? And whats that I smell? Mmmm . . . youve added just a sprig of peppermint, havent you? Unorthodox, ut what a stroke of inspiration, Harry, of course, that would tend to counteralance the occa-sional side effects of excessive singing and nose-tweaking. ... I really dont know where you get these rain waves, my oy . . . unless --"
Harry pushed the Half-Blood Princes ook deeper into his ag with his foot.
"-- its just your mothers genes coming out in you!"
"Oh . . . yeah, maye," said Harry, relieved.
Ernie was looking rather grumpy; determined to outshine Harry for once, he had most rashly invented his own potion, which had curdled and formed a kind of purple dumpling at the ottom of his cauldron. Malfoy was already packing up, sour-faced; Slughorn had pronounced his Hiccuping Solution merely "passale."
The ell rang and oth Ernie and Malfoy left at once. "Sir," Harry egan, ut Slughorn immediately glanced over his shoulder; when he saw that the room was empty ut for himself and Harry, he hurried away as fast as he could.
"Professor -- Professor, dont you want to taste my po -- ?" called Harry desperately.
But Slughorn had gone. Disappointed, Harry emptied the caul-dron, packed up his things, left the dungeon, and walked slowly ack upstairs to the common room.
Ron and Hermione returned in the late afternoon.
"Harry!" cried Hermione as she climed through the portrait hole. "Harry, I passed!"
"Well done!" he said. "And Ron?"
"He -- he just failed," whispered Hermione, as Ron came slouching into the room looking most morose. "It was really unlucky, a tiny thing, the
examiner just spotted that hed left half an eyerow ehind. . . How did it go with Slughorn?"
"No joy," said Harry, as Ron joined them. "Bad luck, mate, ut youll pass next time -- we can take it together."
"Yeah, I spose," said Ron grumpily. "But half an eyerow – like that matters!"
"I know," said Hermione soothingly, "it does seem really harsh. ..."
They spent most of their dinner roundly ausing the Apparition examiner, and Ron looked fractionally more cheerful y the time they set off ack to the common room, now discussing the continuing prolem of Slughorn and the memory.
"So, Harry -- you going to use the Felix Felicis or what?" Ron demanded.
"Yeah, I spose Id etter," said Harry. "I dont reckon Ill need all of it, not twenty-four hours worth, it cant take all night.... Ill just take a mouthful. Two or three hours should do it."
"Its a great feeling when you take it," said Ron reminiscently. "Like you cant do anything wrong."
"What are you talking aout?" said Hermione, laughing. "Youve never taken any!"
"Yeah, ut I thought I had, didnt I?" said Ron, as though ex-plaining the ovious. "Same difference really ..."
As they had only just seen Slughorn enter the Great Hall and knew that he liked to take time over meals, they lingered for a while in the common room, the plan eing that Harry should go to Slughorn s office once the teacher had had time to get ack there. When the sun had sunk to the level of the treetops in the Forid-den Forest, they decided the moment had come, and after check-ing carefully that Neville, Dean, and Seamus were all in the common room, sneaked up to the oys dormitory.
Harry took out the rolled-up socks at the ottom of his trunk and extracted the tiny, gleaming ottle.
"Well, here goes," said Harry, and he raised the little ottle and look a carefully measured gulp.
"What does it feel like?" whispered Hermione.
Harry did not answer for a moment. Then, slowly ut surely, an exhilarating sense of infinite opportunity stole through him; he felt as though he could have done anything, anything at all... and getting the memory from Slughorn seemed suddenly not only pos-sile, ut positively easy. . . .
He got to his feet, smiling, rimming with confidence.
"Excellent," he said. "Really excellent. Right. . . Im going down to Hagrids."
"What?" said Ron and Hermione together, looking aghast.
"No, Harry -- youve got to go and see Slughorn, rememer?" said Hermione.
"No," said Harry confidently. "Im going to Hagrids, Ive got a good feeling aout going to Hagrids."
"Youve got a good feeling aout urying a giant spider?" asked Ron, looking stunned.
"Yeah," said Harry, pulling his Invisiility Cloak out of his ag. "I feel like its the place to e tonight, you know what I mean?"
"No," said Ron and Hermione together, oth looking positively alarmed now.
"This is Felix Felicis, I suppose?" said Hermione anxiously, holding up the ottle to the light. "You havent got another little ottle full of-- I dont know --"
"Essence of Insanity?" suggested Ron, as Harry swung his cloak over his shoulders.
Harry laughed, and Ron and Hermione looked even more alarmed.
"Trust me," he said. "I know what Im doing ... or at least" he strolled confidently to the door-- "Felix does."
He pulled the Invisiility Cloak over his head and set off down the stairs, Ron and Hermione hurrying along ehind him. At the foot of the stairs, Harry slid through the open door.
"What were you doing up there with her!" shrieked Lavender Brown, staring right through Harry at Ron and Hermione emerging together from the oys dormitories. Harry heard Ron splutter-ing ehind him as he darted across the room away from them.
Getting through the portrait hole was simple; as he approached it, Ginny and Dean came through it, and Harry was ale to slip etween them. As he did so, he rushed accidentally against Ginny.
"Dont push me, please, Dean," she said, sounding annoyed. ; "Youre always doing that, I can get through perfectly well on my own. ..."
The portrait swung closed ehind Harry, ut not efore he had heard Dean make an angry retort.. . . His feeling of elation in-creasing, Harry strode off through the castle. He did not have to creep along, for he met noody on his way, ut this did not surprise him in the slightest. This evening, he was the luckiest person at Hogwarts.
Why he knew that going to Hagrids was the right thing to do, he had no idea. It was as though the potion was illuminating a few steps of the path at a time. He could not see the final destination, he could not see where Slughorn came in, ut he knew that he was going the right way to get that memory. When he reached the en-trance hall he saw that Filch had forgotten to lock the front door. Beaming, Harry threw it open and reathed in the smell of clean air and grass for a moment efore walking down the steps into the dusk.
It was when he reached the ottom step that it occurred to him how very pleasant it would e to pass the vegetale patch on his walk to Hagrids. It was not strictly on the way, ut it seemed clear to Harry that this was a whim on which he should act, so he di-rected his feet immediately toward the vegetale patch, where he was pleased, ut not altogether surprised, to find Professor Slughorn in conversation with Professor Sprout. Harry lurked e-hind a low stone wall, feeling at peace with the world and listening to their conversation.
"I do thank you for taking the time, Pomona," Slughorn was saying courteously, "most authorities agree that they are at their most efficacious if picked at twilight."
"Oh, I quite agree," said Professor Sprout warmly. "That enough for you?"
"Plenty, plenty," said Slughorn, who, Harry saw, was carrying an armful of leafy plants. "This should allow for a few leaves for each of my third
years, and some to spare if anyody over-stews them. . . . Well, good evening to you, and many thanks again!"
Professor Sprout headed off into the gathering darkness in the direction of her greenhouses, and Slughorn directed his steps to the spot where Harry stood, invisile.
Seized with an immediate desire to reveal himself, Harry pullet I off the cloak with a flourish.
"Good evening, Professor."
"Merlin’s eard, Harry, you made me jump," said Slughotn, stopping dead in his tracks and looking wary. "How did you get out of the castle?"
"I think Filch mustve forgotten to lock the doors," said Harry cheerfully, and was delighted to see Slughorn scowl.
"Ill e reporting that man, hes more concerned aout litter than proper security if you ask me. . . . But why are you out then, Harry?"
"Well, sir, its Hagrid," said Harry, who knew that the right thing to do just now was to tell the truth. "Hes pretty upset. . . But you wont tell anyone, Professor? I dont want troule for him. ..."
Slughorns curiosity was evidently aroused. "Well, I cant promise that," he said gruffly. "But I know that Dumledore trusts Hagrid to the hilt, so Im sure he cant e up to anything very dreadful. .."
"Well, its this giant spider, hes had it for years. ... It lived in the forest. ... It could talk and everything --"
"I heard rumors there were acromantulas in the forest," said Slughorn softly, looking over at the mass of lack trees. "Its true, then?"
"Yes," said Harry. "But this one, Aragog, the first one Hagrid ever got, it died last night. Hes devastated. He wants company while he uries it and I said Id go."
"Touching, touching," said Slughorn asentmindedly, his large droopy eyes fixed upon the distant lights of Hagrids cain. "But acromantula venom is very valuale ... If the east only just died it might not yet have dried out. . . . Of course, I wouldnt want to do anything insensitive if Hagrid is upset. . . ut if there was any way to procure some ... I mean, its almost impossile to get venom from an acromantula while its alive. ..."
Slughorn seemed to e talking more to himself than Harry now. ". . . seems an awful waste not to collect it... might get a hun-dred Galleons a pint. ... To e frank, my salary is not large. . . ."
And now Harry saw clearly what was to e done. "Well," he said, with a most convincing hesitancy, "well, if you wanted to come, Professor, Hagrid
would proaly e really pleased. . . . Give Aragog a etter send-off, you know ..."
"Yes, of course," said Slughorn, his eyes now gleaming with en-thusiasm. "I tell you what, Harry, Ill meet you down there with a ottle or two. . . . Well drink the poor easts -- well -- not health -- ut well send it off in style, anyway, once its uried. And Ill change my tie, this one is a little exuerant for the occa-sion. . . ."
He ustled ack into the castle, and Harry sped off to Hagrids, delighted with himself.
"Yen came," croaked Hagrid, when he opened the door and saw Harry emerging from the Invisiility Cloak in front of him.
"Yeah -- Ron and Hermione couldnt, though," said Harry. "Theyre really sorry."
"Don -- don matter . . . Hedve in touched yehre here, though, Harry. . ."
Hagrid gave a great so. He had made himself a lack armand out of what looked like a rag dipped in oot polish, and his eyes were puffy, red, and swollen. Harry patted him consolingly on the elow, which was the highest point of Hagrid he could easily reach.
"Where are we urying him?" he asked. "The forest?"
"Blimey, no," said Hagrid, wiping his streaming eyes on the ot-tom of his shirt. "The other spiders won let me anywhere near their wes now Aragogs gone. Turns out it was only on his orders they didn eat me! Can yeh elieve that, Harry?"
The honest answer was "yes"; Harry recalled with painful ease the scene when he and Ron had come face-to-face with the aero-mantulas. They had een quite clear that Aragog was the only thing that stopped them from eating Hagrid.
"Never in an area o the forest I couldn go efore!" said Hagrid, shaking his head. "It wasn easy, gettin Aragogs ody out o there, I can tell yeh -- they usually eat their dead, see. . . . But I wanted ter give im a nice urial... a proper send-off. . ."
He roke into sos again and Harry resumed the patting of his elow, saying as he did so (for the potion seemed to indicate that it was the right thing to do), "Professor Slughorn met me coming down here, Hagrid."
"Not in troule, are yeh?" said Hagrid, looking up, alarmed. "Yeh shouldn’ e outta the castle in the evenin, I know it, its my fault --"
"No, no, when he heard what I was doing he said hed like to come and pay his last respects to Aragog too," said Harry.
"Hes gone to change into something more suitale, I think...and he said hed ring some ottles so we can drink to Aragogs mem-ory..."
"Did he?" said Hagrid, looking oth astonished and touched. "Thas -- thas righ nice of him, that is, an not turnin yeh in ei-ther. Ive never really had a lot ter do with Horace Slughorn efore. .. . Comin ter see old Aragog off, though, eh? Well. . . he’dve liked that, Aragog would. . . ."
Harry thought privately that what Aragog would have liked most aout Slughorn was the ample amount of edile flesh he pro-vided, ut he merely moved to the rear window of Hagrids hut, where he saw the rather horrile sight of the enormous dead spider lying on its ack outside, its legs curled and tangled.
"Are we going to ury him here, Hagrid, in your garden?"
"Jus eyond the pumpkin patch, I thought," said Hagrid in a choked voice. "Ive already dug the -- yeh know -- grave. Jus thought wed say a few nice things over him -- happy memories, yeh know --"
His voice quivered and roke. There was a knock on the door, and he turned to answer it, lowing his nose on his great spotted handkerchief as he did so. Slughorn hurried over the threshold, several ottles in his arms, and wearing a somer lack cravat.
"Hagrid," he said, in a deep, grave voice. "So very sorry to hear of your loss."
"Thas very nice of yeh," said Hagrid. "Thanks a lot. An thanks fer not givin Harry detention neither. . . ."
"Wouldnt have dreamed of it," said Slughorn. "Sad night, sad night. . . Where is the poor creature?"
"Out here," said Hagrid in a shaking voice. "Shall we -- shall we do it, then?"
The three of them stepped out into the ack garden. The moon was glistening palely through the trees now, and its rays mingled with the light spilling from Hagrids window to illuminate Aragogs ody lying on the edge of a massive pit eside a ten-foot- high mound of freshly dug earth.
"Magnificent," said Slughorn, approaching the spiders head, where eight milky eyes stared lankly at the sky and two huge, curved pincers shone, motionless, in the moonlight. Harry thougln he heard the tinkle of ottles as Slughorn ent over the pincers, apparently examining the enormous hairy head.
"Its not evryone appreciates how eauiful they are’ said H grid to Slughorns ack, tears leaking from the corners of his crinkled eyes. "I didn know yeh were interested in creatures like Aragog, Horace."
"Interested? My dear Hagrid, I revere them," said Slughorn, stepping ack from the ody. Harry saw the glint of a ottle disap-pear eneath his cloak,
though Hagrid, mopping his eyes once more, noticed nothing. "Now . . . shall we proceed to the urial?"
Hagrid nodded and moved forward. He heaved the gigantic spi-der into his arms and, with an enormous grunt, rolled it into the dark pit. It hit the ottom with a rather horrile, crunchy thud. Hagrid started to cry again.
"Of course, its difficult for you, who knew him est," said Slughorn, who like Harry could reach no higher than Hagrids el-ow, ut patted it all the same. "Why dont I say a few words?"
He must have got a lot of good quality venom from Aragog, Harry thought, for Slughorn wore a satisfied smirk as he stepped up to the rim of the pit and said, in a slow, impressive voice, "Farewell, Aragog, king of arachnids, whose long and faithful friendship those who knew you wont forget! Though your ody will decay, your spirit lingers on in the quiet, we-spun places of your forest home. May your many-eyed descendants ever flourish and your human friends find solace for the loss they have sustained."
"Tha was . . . tha was . . . eauiful!" howled Hagrid, and he collapsed onto the compost heap, crying harder than ever.
"There, there," said Slughorn, waving his wand so that the huge pile of earth rose up and then fell, with a muffled sort of crash, onto the dead spider, forming a smooth mound. "Lets get inside and have a drink. Get on his other side, Harry. . . . Thats it. ... Up you come, Hagrid . . . Well done ..."
They deposited Hagrid in a chair at the tale. Fang, who had een skulking in his asket during the urial, now came padding softly across to them and put his heavy head into Harrys lap as usual. Slughorn uncorked one of the ottles of wine he had rought.
"I have had it all tested for poison," he assured Harry, pouring most of the first ottle into one of Hagrids ucket-sized mugs and handing it to Hagrid. "Had a house-elf taste every ottle after what happened to your poor friend Rupert."
Harry saw, in his minds eye, the expression on Hermiones face if she ever heard aout this ause of houseelves, and decided never to mention it to her.
"One for Harry . . ." said Slughorn, dividing a second ottle e-tween two mugs, ". . . and one for me. Well" -- he raised his mug high -- "to Aragog."
"Aragog," said Harry and Hagrid together. Both Slughorn and Hagrid drank deeply. Harry, however, with the way ahead illuminated for him y Felix Felicis, knew that he must not drink, so he merely pretended to take a gulp and then set the mug ack on the tale efore him.
"I had him from an egg, yeh know," said Hagrid morosely. "Tiny little thing he was when he hatched. Bout the size of a Pekingese"
"Sweet," said Slughorn.
"Used ter keep him in a cupoard up at the school until . . . well..."
Hagrids face darkened and Harry knew why: Tom Riddle had contrived to have Hagrid thrown out of school, lamed for opening the Chamer of Secrets. Slughorn, however, did not seem to e listening; he was looking up at the ceiling, from which a numer of rass pots hung, and also a long, silky skein of right white hair.
"Thats not unicorn hair, Hagrid?"
"Oh, yeah," said Hagrid indifferently. "Gets pulled out of their tails, they catch it on ranches an stuff in the forest, yeh know ..."
"But my dear chap, do you know how much thats worth?"
"I use it fer indin on andages an stuff if a creature gets in jured," said Hagrid, shrugging. "Its dead useful. . . very strong."
Slughorn took another deep draught from his mug, his eyes moving carefully around the cain now, looking, Harry knew, for more treasures that he might e ale to convert into a plentiful su ply of oak-matured mead, crystalized pineapple, and velvet smok-ing jackets. He refilled Hagrids mug and his own, and questioned him aout the creatures that lived in the forest these days and how Hagrid was ale to look after them all. Hagrid, ecoming expan-sive under the influence of the drink and Slughorns
flattering in-terest, stopped mopping his eyes and entered happily into a long explanation of owtruckle husandry.
The Felix Felicis gave Harry a little nudge at this point, and he noticed that the supply of drink that Slughorn had rought was running out fast. Harry had not yet managed to ring off the Re-filling Charm without saying the incantation aloud, ut the idea that he might not e ale to do it tonight was laughale: Indeed, Harry grinned to himself as, unnoticed y either Hagrid or Slug-liorn (now swapping tales of the illegal trade in dragon eggs) he pointed his wand under the tale at the emptying ottles and they immediately egan to refill.
After an hour or so, Hagrid and Slughorn egan making extravagant toasts: to Hogwarts, to Dumledore, to elf-made wine, and to-
"Harry Potter!" ellowed Hagrid, slopping some of his four-teenth ucket of wine down his chin as he drained it.
"Yes, indeed," cried Slughorn a little thickly, "Parry Otter, the Chosen Boy Who -- well -- something of that sort," he mumled, and drained his mug too.
Not long after this, Hagrid ecame tearful again and pressed the whole unicorn tail upon Slughorn, who pocketed it with cries of, "To friendship! To generosity! To ten Galleons a hair!"
And for a while after that, Hagrid and Slughorn were sitting side y side, arms around each other, singing a slow sad song aout a dying wizard called Odo.
"Aaargh, the good die young," muttered Hagrid, slumping low onto the tale, a little cross-eyed, while Slughorn continued to war-le the refrain. "Me dad was no age ter go ... nor were yer mum an dad, Harry . . ."
Great fat tears oozed out of the corners of Hagrids crinkled eyes again; he grasped Harrys arm and shook it
"Bes wiz and witchard o their age ... I never knew.. . terrile thing . . . terrile thing ..."
"And Odo the hero, they ore him ack home
To the place that hed known as a lad,"
sang Slughorn plaintively.
"They laid him to rest with his hat inside out.
And his wand snapped in two, which was sad."
". . . terrile," Hagrid grunted, and his great shaggy head rolled sideways onto his arms and he fell asleep, snoring deeply.
"Sorry," said Slughorn with a hiccup. "Cant carry a tune to save my life."
"Hagrid wasnt talking aout your singing," said Harry quietly. "He was talking aout my mum and dad dying."
"Oh," said Slughorn, repressing a large elch. "Oh dear. Yes, that was -- was terrile indeed. Terrile . . . terrile ..."
He looked quite at a loss for what to say, and resorted to refilling their mugs.
"I dont -- dont suppose you rememer it, Harry?" he asked awkwardly.
"No -- well, I was only one when they died," said Harry, his eyes on the flame of the candle flickering in Hagrids heavy snores. "But Ive found out pretty much what happened since. My dad died first. Did you know that?"
"I -- I didnt," said Slughorn in a hushed voice.
"Yeah . . . Voldemort murdered him and then stepped over his ody toward my mum," said Harry.
Slughorn gave a great shudder, ut he did not seem ale to tear his horrified gaze away from Harrys face.
"He told her to get out of the way," said Harry remorselessly. "He told me she neednt have died. He only wanted me. She could have run."
"Oh dear," reathed Slughorn. "She could have . . . she neednt . . . Thats awful. . . ."
"It is, isnt it?" said Harry, in a voice arely more than a whisper. "But she didnt move. Dad was already dead, ut she didnt want me to go too. She tried to plead with Voldemort. . . ut he just laughed...."
"Thats enough!" said Slughorn suddenly, raising a shaking hand. "Really, my dear oy, enough . . . Im an old man ... I dont need to hear ... I dont want to hear ..."
"I forgot," lied Harry, Felix Felicis leading him on. "You liked her, didnt you?"
"Liked her?" said Slughorn, his eyes rimming with tears once more. "I dont imagine anyone who met her wouldnt have liked her. . . . Very rave . . . Very funny... It was the most horrile thing. ..."
"But you wont help her son," said Harry. "She gave me her life, ut you wont give me a memory."
Hagrids rumling snores filled the cain. Harry looked steadily into Slughorns tear-filled eyes. The Potions master seemed unale to look away.
"Dont say that," he whispered. "It isnt a question ... If it were to help you, of course . . . ut no purpose can e served . . ."
"It can," said Harry clearly. "Dumledore needs information. I need information."
He knew he was safe: Felix was telling him that Slughorn would rememer nothing of this in the morning. Looking Slughorn straight in the eye, Harry leaned forward a little.
"I am the Chosen One. I have to kill him. I need that memory."
Slughorn turned paler than ever; his shiny forehead gleamed with sweat.
"You are the Chosen One?" . . I.
"Of course I am," said Harry calmly.
"But then . . . my dear oy . . . youre asking a great deal. . . youre asking me, in fact, to aid you in your attempt to destroy-"
"You dont want to get rid of the wizard who killed Lily Evans?"
"Harry, Harry, of course I do, ut --"
"Youre scared hell find out you helped me?"
Slughorn said nothing; he looked terrified.
"Be rave like my mother, Professor. . . ."
Slughorn raised a pudgy hand and pressed his shaking fingers to his mouth; he looked for a moment like an enormously overgrown ay.
"I am not proud . . ." he whispered through his fingers. "I am ashamed of what -- of what that memory shows. ... I think I may have done great damage that day. ..."
"Youd cancel out anything you did y giving me the memory," said Harry. "It would e a very rave and nole thing to do."
Hagrid twitched in his sleep and snored on. Slughorn and Harry stared at each other over the guttering candle. There was a long, long silence, ut Felix Felicis told Harry not to reak it, to wait. Then, very slowly, Slughorn put his hand in his pocket and pulled out his wand. He put his other hand inside his cloak and took out a small, empty ottle. Still looking into Harrys eyes, Slughorn touched the tip of his wand to his temple and withdrew it, so that a long, silver thread of memory came away too, clinging to the wand tip. Longer and longer the memory stretched until it roke and swung, silvery right, from the wand. Slughorn lowered it into the ottle where it coiled, then spread, swirling like gas. He corked the ottle with a tremling hand and then passed it across the tale to Harry.
"Thank you very much, Professor."
"Youre a good oy," said Professor Slughorn, tears trickling down his fat cheeks into his walrus mustache. "And youve got her eyes. . . . Just dont think too adly of me once youve seen it. . . ,"
And he too put his head on his arms, gave a deep sigh, and fell asleep.
Chapter 23: Horcruxes
Harry could feel the Felix Felicis wearing off as he creeped ack into the castle. The front door had remained un locked for him, ut on the third floor he met Peeves and only narrowly avoided detection y diving sideways through one of his shortcuts. By the time he got up to the portrait of the Fat Lady and pulled off his Invisiility Cloak, he was not surprised to find her in a most unhelpful mood.
"What sort of time do you call this?"
"Im really sorry -- I had to go out for something important --"
"Well, the password changed at midnight, so youll just have to sleep in the corridor, wont you?"
"Youre joking!" said Harry. "Why did it have to change at midnight?"
"Thats the way it is," said the Fat Lady. "If youre angry, go and take it up with the headmaster, hes the one whos tightened security."
"Fantastic," said Harry itterly, looking around at the hard floor. "Really rilliant. Yeah, I would go and take it up with Dumledore if he was here, ecause hes the one who wanted me to --"
"He is here," said a voice ehind Harry. "Professor Dumledore returned to the school an hour ago."
Nearly Headless Nick was gliding toward Harry, his head wo-ling as usual upon his ruff.
"I had it from the Bloody Baron, who saw him arrive," said Nick. "He appeared, according to the Baron, to e in good spirits, though a little tired, of course."
"Where is he?" said Harry, his heart leaping,"
"Oh, groaning and clanking up on the Astronomy Tower, its a, favorite pastime of his --"
"Not the Bloody Baron -- Dumledore!"
"Oh -- in his office," said Nick. "I elieve, from what the Baron said, that he had usiness to attend to efore turning in --"
"Yeah, he has," said Harry, excitement lazing in his chest at the prospect of telling Dumledore he had secured the memory. He wheeled aout and sprinted off again, ignoring the Fat Lady who was calling after him.
"Come ack! All right, I lied! I was annoyed you woke me up! The passwords still tapeworm!"
But Harry was already hurtling ack along the corridor and within minutes, he was saying "toffee eclairs" to Dumledores gar-goyle, which leapt aside, permitting Harry entrance onto the spiral staircase.
"Enter," said Dumledore when Harry knocked. He sounded exhausted. Harry pushed open the door. There was Dumledores office, looking the same as ever, ut with lack, star-strewn skies eyond the windows.
"Good gracious, Harry," said Dumledore in surprise. "To what do I owe this very late pleasure?"
"Sir -- Ive got it. I’ve got the memory from Slughorn."
Harry pulled out the tiny glass ottle and showed it to Dumledore. For a moment or two, the headmaster looked stunned. Then his face split in a wide smile.
"Harry, this is spectacular news! Very well done indeed! I knew you could do it!"
All thought of the lateness of the hour apparently forgotten, he hurried around his desk, took the ottle with Slughorns memory in his uninjured hand, and strode over to the cainet where he kepi the Pensieve.
"And now," said Dumledore, placing the stone asin upon the desk and emptying the contents of the ottle into it. "Now, at last. we shall see. Harry, quickly . . ."
Harry owed oediently over the Pensieve and felt his feet leave the office floor. . . . Once again he fell through darkness and landed in Horace Slughorns office many years efore. There was the much younger Slughorn, with his thick, shiny, straw-colored hair and his gingery-lond mustache, sitting again in the comfortale winged armchair in his office, his feet resting upon a velvet pouffe, a small glass of wine in one hand, the other rummaging in a ox of crystallized pineapple. And there were the half dozen teenage oys sitting around Slughorn with Tom Riddle in the midst of them, Marvolos gold-and-lack ring gleaming on his finger.
Dumledore landed eside Harry just as Riddle asked, "Sir is it true that Professor Merrythought is retiring?"
"Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldnt tell you," said Slughorn, wag-ging his finger reprovingly at Riddle, though winking at the same time. "I must say, Id like to know where you get your information, oy, more knowledgeale than half the staff, you are."
Riddle smiled; the other oys laughed and cast him admiring looks.
"What with your uncanny aility to know things you shouldnt, and your careful flattery of the people who matter -- thank you for the pineapple, y the way, youre quite right, it is my favorite --" Several of the oys tittered again. "-- I confidently expect you to rise to Minister of Magic within twenty years. Fifteen, if you keep sending me pineapple, I have ex-cellent contacts at the Ministry."
Tom Riddle merely smiled as the others laughed again. Harry noticed that he was y no means the eldest of the group of oys, ut that they all seemed to look to him as their leader.
"I dont know that politics would suit me, sir," he said when the laughter had died away. "I dont have the right kind of ackground, for one thing."
A couple of the oys around him smirked at each other. Harry was sure they were enjoying a private joke, undoutedly aout what they knew, or suspected, regarding their gang leaders famous ancestor.
"Nonsense," said Slughorn riskly, "couldnt e plainer you come from decent Wizarding stock, ailities like yours. No, youll go far, Tom, Ive never een wrong aout a student yet."
The small golden clock standing upon Slughorns desk chimed eleven oclock ehind him and he looked around.
"Good gracious, is it that time already? Youd etter get going oys, or well all e in troule. Lestrange, I want your essay y in morrow or its detention. Same goes for you, Avery."
One y one, the oys filed out of the room. Slughorn heaved himself out of his armchair and carried his empty glass over to his desk. A movement ehind him made him look around; Riddle was still standing there.
"Look shar
p, Tom, you dont want to e caught out of ed out of hours, and you a prefect.. ."
"Sir, I wanted to ask you something." - "Ask away, then, moy, ask away. . . ."
"Sir, I wondered what you know aout. . . aout Horcruxes?
Slughorn stared at him, his thick ringers asentmindedly clawing the stem of his wine glass.
"Project for Defense Against the Dark Arts, is it?"
But Harry could tell that Slughorn knew perfectly well that this was not schoolwork.
"Not exactly, sir," said Riddle. "I came across the term while reading and I didnt fully understand it."
"No . . . well. . . youd e hard-pushed to find a ook at Hogwarts thatll give you details on Horcruxes, Tom, thats very Dark stuff, very Dark indeed," said Slughorn.
"But you oviously know all aout them, sir? I mean, a wizard like you -- sorry, I mean, if you cant tell me, oviously -- I just knew if anyone could tell me, you could -- so I just thought Id –"
It was very well done, thought Harry, the hesitancy, the casual tone, the careful flattery, none of it overdone. He, Harry, had had too much experience of trying to wheedle information out of re-luctant people not to recognize a master at work. He could tell that Riddle wanted the information very, very much; perhaps had een working toward this moment for weeks.
"Well," said Slughorn, not looking at Riddle, ut fiddling with the rion on top of his ox of crystallized pineapple, "well, it cant hurt to give you an overview, of course. Just so that you understand t he term. A Horcrux is the word used for an oject in which a per-son has concealed part of their soul."
"I dont quite understand how that works, though, sir," said Riddle.
His voice was carefully controlled, ut Harry could sense his excitement.
"Well, you split your soul, you see," said Slughorn, "and hide part of it in an oject outside the ody. Then, even if ones ody is attacked or destroyed, one cannot die, for part of the soul remains earthound and undamaged. But of course, existence in such a form ..."
Slughorns face crumpled and Harry found himself rememer-ing words he had heard nearly two years efore: "I was ripped from my ody, I was less than spirit, less than the meanest ghost. . . ut still, I was alive."
"... few would want it, Tom, very few. Death would e preferale."
But Riddles hunger was now apparent; his expression was greedy, he could no longer hide his longing.
"How do you split your soul?"
"Well," said Slughorn uncomfortaly, "you must understand that the soul is supposed to remain intact and whole. Splitting n it I an act of violation, it is against nature."
"But how do you do it?"
"By an act of evil -- the supreme act of evil. By commiting murder. Killing rips the soul apart. The wizard intent upon creating a Horcrux would use the damage to his advantage: He would encase the torn portion --"
"Encase? But how -- ?"
"There is a spell, do not ask me, I dont know!" said Slughoin shaking his head like an old elephant othered y mosquitoes. " Do I look as though I have tried it -- do I look like a killer?"
"No, sir, of course not," said Riddle quickly. "Im sorry ... I didnt mean to offend . . ."
"Not at all, not at all, not offended," said Slughorn gruffly, "It is natural to feel some curiosity aout these things. . . . Wizards of a certain calier have always een drawn to that aspect of magic. . . ."
"Yes, sir," said Riddle. "What I dont understand, though -- just out of curiosity -- I mean, would one Horcrux e much use? Can you only split your soul once? Wouldnt it e etter, make you stronger, to have your soul in more pieces, I mean, for instance, isnt seven the most powerfully magical numer, wouldnt seven -- ?"
"Merlins eard, Tom!" yelped Slughorn. "Seven! Isnt it ad enough to think of killing one person? And in any case . . . ad enough to divide the soul . . . ut to rip it into seven pieces . . ."
Slughorn looked deeply trouled now: He was gazing at Riddle as though he had never seen him plainly efore, and Harry could tell that he was regretting entering into the conversation at all.
"Of course," he muttered, "this is all hypothetical, what were discussing, isnt it? All academic . . ."
"Yes, sir, of course," said Riddle quickly.
"But all the same, Tom . . . keep it quiet, what Ive told -- thats to say, what weve discussed. People wouldnt like to think weve een chatting aout Horcruxes. Its a anned suject at Hogwarts, you know. . . . Dumledores particularly fierce aout it. ..."
"I wont say a word, sir," said Riddle, and he left, ut not efore Harry had glimpsed his face, which was full of that same wild hap-piness it had worn when he had first found out that he was a wiz-ard, the sort of happiness that did not enhance his handsome features, ut made them, somehow, less human. . . .
"Thank you, Harry," said Dumledore quietly. "Let us go. . . ."
When Harry landed ack on the office floor Dumledore was ; already sitting down ehind his desk. Harry sat too and waited for Dumledore to speak.
"I have een hoping for this piece of evidence for a very long time," said Dumledore at last. "It confirms the theory on which I have een working, it tells me that I am right, and also how very far there is still to go. ..."
Harry suddenly noticed that every single one of the old head-masters and headmistresses in the portraits around the walls was awake and listening in on their conversation. A corpulent, red nosed wizard had actually taken out an ear trumpet.
"Well, Harry," said Dumledore, "I am sure you understood the significance of what we just heard. At the same age as you are now, give or take a few months, Tom Riddle was doing all he could to find out how to make himself immortal."
"You think he succeeded then, sir?" asked Harry. "He made a Horcrux? And thats why he didnt die when he attacked me? He had a Horcrux hidden somewhere? A it of his soul was safe?"
"A it... or more," said Dumledore. "You heard Voldemort, what he particularly wanted from Horace was an opinion on what would happen to the wizard who created more than one Horcrux, what would happen to the wizard so determined to evade death that he would e prepared to murder many times, rip his soul repeatedly, so as to store it in many, separately concealed Horcruxc. No ook would have given him that information. As far as I know -- as far, I am sure, as Voldemort knew -- no wizard had ever done more than tear his soul in two."
Dumledore paused for a moment, marshaling his thought, and then said, "Four years ago, I received what I considered certain proof that Voldemort had split his soul."
"Where?" asked Harry. "How?"
"You handed it to me, Harry," said Dumledore. "The diary, Riddles diary, the one giving instructions on how to reopen the Chamer of Secrets."
"I dont understand, sir," said Harry.
"Well, although I did not see the Riddle who came out of the di-ary, what you descried to me was a phenomenon I had never wit-nessed. A mere memory starting to act and think for itself? A mere memory, sapping the life
out of the girl into whose hands it had fallen? No, something much more sinister had lived inside that ook. ... a fragment of soul, I was almost sure of it. The diary had een a Horcrux. But this raised as many questions as it answered. What intrigued and alarmed me most was that that diary had een intended as a weapon as much as a safeguard."
"1 still dont understand," said Harry.
"Well, it worked as a Horcrux is supposed to work -- in other words, the fragment of soul concealed inside it was kept safe and had undoutedly played its part in preventing the death of its owner. But there could e no dout that Riddle really wanted that diary read, wanted the piece of his soul to inhait or possess some-ody else, so that Slytherins monster would e unleashed again."
"Well, he didnt want his hard work to e wasted," said Harry. "He wanted people to know he was Slytherins heir, ecause he couldnt take credit at the time."
"Quite correct," said Dumledore, nodding. "But dont you see, Harry, that if he intended the diary to e passed to, or planted on, some future Hogwarts student, he was eing remarkaly lase aout that precious fragment of his soul concealed within it. The point of a Horcrux is, as Professor Slughorn explained, to keep part of the self hidden and safe, not to fling it into someody elses path and run the risk that they might destroy it -- as indeed happened: That particular fragment of soul is no more; you saw to that.
The careless way in which Voldemort regarded this Horcrux seemed most ominous to me. It suggested that he must have made -- or had een planning to make -- more Horcruxes, so that the loss of his first would not e so detrimental. I did not wish to e-lieve it, ut nothing else seemed to make sense. Then you told me, two years later, that on the night that Volde-mort returned to his ody, he made a most illuminating and alarm-ing statement to his Death Eaters. ‘I who have gone further than anyody along the path that leads to immortality.’ That was what you told me he said. Further than anyody! And I thought I knew what that meant, though the Death Eaters did not. He was referring to his Horcruxes, Horcruxes in the plural, Harry, which I don’t elieve any other wizard has ever had. Yet it fitted: Lord Voldomort has seemed to grow less human with the passing years, and the transformation he had undergone seemed to me to e only explainale if his soul was mutilated eyond the realms of what we might call usual evil . . ."
"So hes made himself impossile to kill y murdering other people?" said Harry. "Why couldnt he make a Sorcerers Stone, or steal one, if he was so interested in immortality?"
"Well, we know that he tried to do just that, five years ago," s;n«l Dumledore. "But there are several reasons why, I think, a Sorcerers Stone would appeal less than Horcruxes to Lord Voldemort,
"While the Elixir of Life does indeed extend life, it must lie drunk regularly, for all eternity, if the drinker is to maintain the immortality. Therefore, Voldemort would e entirely dependant on the Elixir, and if it ran
out, or was contaminated, or if the Stone was stolen, he would die just like any other man. Voldemort likes to operate alone, rememer. I elieve that he would have found the thought of eing dependent, even on the Elixir, intolerale. Of course he was prepared to drink it if it would take him out of the horrile part-life to which he was condemned after attacking you, ut only to regain a ody. Thereafter, I am convinced, he intended to continue to rely on his Horcruxes. He would need nothing more, if only he could regain a human form. He was already im-mortal, you see ... or as close to immortal as any man can e. But now, Harry, armed with this information, the crucial memory you have succeeded in procuring for us, we are closer to the se-cret of finishing Lord Voldemort than anyone has ever een efore. You heard him, Harry: Wouldnt it e etter, make you stronger, to have your soul in more pieces . . . isnt seven the most powerfully magical numer . . . Isnt seven the most powerfully magical numer. Yes, I think the idea of a seven-part soul would greatly appeal to Lord Voldemort."
"He made seven Horcruxes?" said Harry, horror-struck, while several of the portraits on the walls made similar noises of shock mid outrage. "But they could e anywhere in the world -- hidden -- uried or invisile --"
"I am glad to see you appreciate the magnitude of the prolem," said Dumledore calmly. "But firstly, no, Harry, not seven Hor-cruxes: six. The seventh part of his soul, however maimed, resides inside his regenerated ody. That was the part of him that lived a spectral existence for so many years during his exile; without that, he has no self at all. That seventh piece of soul will e the last that anyody wishing to kill Voldemort must attack -- the piece that lives in his ody."
"But the six Horcruxes, then," said Harry, a little desperately, "how are we supposed to find them?"
"You are forgetting . . . you have already destroyed one of them. And I have destroyed another."
"You have?" said Harry eagerly.
"Yes indeed," said Dumledore, and he raised his lackened, urned-looking hand. "The ring, Harry. Marvolos ring. And a ter-rile curse there was upon it too. Had it not een -- forgive me the lack of seemly modesty -- for my own prodigious skill, and for Professor Snapes timely action when I returned to Hogwarts, des-perately injured, I might not have lived to tell the tale. However, a withered hand does not seem an unreasonale exchange for a sev-enth of Voldemorts soul. The ring is no longer a Horcrux."
"But how did you find it?"
"Well, as you now know, for many years I have made it my usiness to discover as much as I can aout Voldemorts past life. I have traveled widely, visiting those places he once knew. I stumled across the ring hidden in the ruin of the Gaunt’s house. It seem that once Voldemort had succeeded in sealing a piece of his soul in side it, he did not want to wear it anymore. He hid it, protected y many powerful enchantments, in the shack where his ancestors had once lived (Morfin having een carted off to
Azkaan, of course), never guessing that I might one day take the troule to visit the ruin, or that I might e keeping an eye open for traces of magical concealment.
"However, we should not congratulate ourselves too heartily. You destroyed the diary and I the ring, ut if we are right in our theory of a seven-part soul, four Horcruxes remain."
"And they could e anything?" said Harry. "They could e oh, in tin cans or, I dunno, empty potion ottles. . . ."
"You are thinking of Portkeys, Harry, which must e ordinary ojects, easy to overlook. But would Lord Voldemort use tin cans or old potion ottles to guard his own precious soul? You are forgetting what I have showed you. Lord Voldemort liked to collect trophies, and he preferred ojects with a powerful magical history His pride, his elief in his own superiority, his determination to carve for himself a startling place in magical history; these things, suggest to me that Voldemort would have chosen his Horcruxr with some care, favoring ojects worthy of the honor."
"The diary wasnt that special."
"The diary, as you have said yourself, was proof that he was the Hire of Slytherin. I am sure that Voldemort considered it of stu-pendous importance."
"So, the other Horcruxes?" said Harry. "Do you think you know what they are, sir?"
"I can only guess," said Dumledore. "For the reasons I have al-ready given, I elieve that Lord Voldemort would prefer ojects that, in themselves, have a certain grandeur. I have therefore trawled ack through Voldemorts past to see if I can find evidence that such artifacts have disappeared around him."
"The locket!" said Harry loudly, "Hufflepuffs cup!"
"Yes," said Dumledore, smiling, "I would e prepared to et -- perhaps not my other hand -- ut a couple of fingers, that they e-came Horcruxes three and four. The remaining two, assuming again that he created a total of six, are more of a prolem, ut I will hazard a guess that, having secured ojects from Hufflepuff and Slytherin, he set out to track down ojects owned y Gryffindor or Ravenclaw. Four ojects from the four founders would, I am sure, have exerted a powerful pull over Voldemorts imagination. I can-not answer for whether he ever managed to find anything of Ravenclaws. I am confident, however, that the only known relic of Gryffindor remains safe."
Dumledore pointed his lackened fingers to the wall ehind him, where a ruy-encrusted sword reposed within a glass case.
"Do you think thats why he really wanted to come ack to Hogwarts, sir?" said Harry. "To try and find something from one of the other founders?"
"My thoughts precisely," said Dumledore. "But unfortunately, that does not advance us much further, for he was turned away, or so I elieve, without the chance to search the school. I am forced to conclude that he never fulfilled his amition of collecting four founders ojects. He definitely had two -- he may have found three -- that is the est we can do for now."
"Even if he got something of Ravenclaws or of Gryffindors, that leaves a sixth Horcrux," said Harry, counting on his fingers. "Unless he’s got oth?"
"I dont think so," said Dumledore. "I think I know what the sixth Horcrux is. I wonder what you will say when I confess that I have een curious for a while aout the ehavior of the snake, Nagini?
"The snake?" said Harry, startled. "You can use animals as Horcruxes?"
"Well, it is inadvisale to do so," said Dumledore, "ecause to confide a part of your soul to something that can think and move for itself is oviously a very risky usiness. However, if my calculations are correct, Voldemort was still at least one Horcrux short of his goal of six when he entered your parents house with the inten-tion of killing you. He seems to have reserved the process of making Horcruxes for particularly significant deaths. You would certainly have een that. He elieved that in killing you, he was
destroying the danger the prophecy had outlined. He elieved he was making himself invin-cile. I am sure that he was intending to make his final Horcrux with your death. As we know, he failed. After an interval of some years, however, he used Nagini to kill an old Muggle man, and it might then have occurred to him to turn her into his last Horcrux. She underlines the Slytherin connection, which enhances Lord Voldemorts mys-tique; I think he is perhaps as fond of her as he can e of anything; he certainly likes to keep her close, and he seems to have an un-usual amount of control over her, even for a Parselmouth."
"So," said Harry, "the diarys gone, the rings gone. The cup, the locket, and the snake are still intact, and you think there might e a Horcrux that was once Ravenclaws or Gryffindors?"
"An admiraly succinct and accurate summary, yes," said Dum-ledore, owing his head.
"So . . . are you still looking for them, sir? Is that where youve een going when youve een leaving the school?"
"Correct," said Dumledore. "I have een looking for a very long time. I think. . . perhaps ... I may e close to finding an-other one. There are hopeful signs."
"And if you do," said Harry quickly, "can I come with you and help get rid of it?"
Dumledore looked at Harry very intently for a moment efore saying, "Yes, I think so."
"I can?" said Harry, thoroughly taken aack.
"Oh yes," said Dumledore, smiling slightly. "I think you have earned that right."
Harry felt his heart lift. It was very good not to hear words of caution and protection for once. The headmasters and head-mistresses around the walls seemed less impressed y Dumledores decision; Harry saw a few of them shaking their heads and Phineas Nigellus actually snorted.
"Does Voldemort know when a Horcrux is destroyed, sir? Can he feel it?" Harry asked, ignoring the portraits.
"A very interesting question, Harry. I elieve not. I elieve that Voldemort is now so immersed in evil, and these crucial parts of himself have een detached for so long, he does not feel as we do. Perhaps, at the point of death, he might e aware of his loss . . . ut he was not aware, for instance, that the diary had een destroyed until he forced the truth out of Lucius Malfoy. When Voldemort discovered that the diary had een mutilated and roed of all its powers, I am told that his anger was terrile to ehold."
"But I thought he meant Lucius Malfoy to smuggle it into Hogwarts?"
"Yes, he did, years ago, when he was sure he would e ale to create more Horcruxes, ut still Lucius was supposed to wait for Voldemorts say-so, and he never received it, for Voldemort van-ished shortly after giving him the diary. No dout he thought that Lucius would not dare do anything with the Horcrux other than guard it carefully, ut he was counting too much upon Lucius’s fear of a master who had een gone for years and whom Lucius elieved dead. Of course, Lucius did not know what the diary really was. I understand that Voldemort had told him the diary would cause the Chamer of Secrets to reopen ecause it was cleverly enchanted. Had Lucius known he held a portion of his mas-ters soul in his hands, he would undoutedly have treated it with more reverence -- ut instead he went ahead and carried out the old plan for his own ends. By planting the diary upon Arthur Weasleys daughter, he hoped to discredit Arthur and get rid of a highly incrim-inating magical oject in one stroke. Ah, poor Lucius . . . what with Voldemorts fury aout the fact that he threw away the Horcrux for his own gain, and the fiasco at the Ministry last year, I would not e sur-prised if he is not secretly glad to e safe in Azkaan at the moment."
Harry sat in thought for a moment, then asked, "So if all of his Horcruxes are destroyed, Voldemort coulde killed?"
"Yes, I think so," said Dumledore. "Without his Horcruxes, Voldemort will e a mortal man with a maimed and diminished soul. Never forget, though, that while his soul may e damaged e-yond repair, his rain and his magical powers remain intact. It will take uncommon skill and power to kill a wizard like Voldemort even without his Horcruxes."
"But I havent got uncommon skill and power," said Harry, e-fore he could stop himself.
"Yes, you have," said Dumledore firmly. "You have a power that Voldemort has never had. You can --"
"I know!" said Harry impatiently. "I can love!" It was only with difficulty that he stopped himself adding, "Big deal!"
"Yes, Harry, you can love," said Dumledore, who looked as though he knew perfectly well what Harry had just refrained from saying. "Which, given everything that has happened to you, is a great and remarkale thing. You are still too young to understand how unusual you are, Harry."
"So, when the prophecy says that Ill have power the Dark Lord knows not, it just means -- love?" asked Harry, feeling a little let down.
"Yes -- just love," said Dumledore. "But Harry, never forget that what the prophecy says is only significant ecause Voldemort made it so. I told you this at the end of last year. Voldemort singled you out as the person who would e most dangerous to him -- and in doing so, he made you the person who would e most dan-gerous to him!"
"But it comes to the same --"
"No, it doesnt!" said Dumledore, sounding impatient now. Pointing at Harry with his lack, withered hand, he said, "You are setting too much store y the prophecy!"
"But," spluttered Harry, "ut you said the prophecy means --"
"If Voldemort had never heard of the prophecy, would it have een fulfilled? Would it have meant anything? Of course not! Ho you think every prophecy in the Hall of Prophecy has een fulfilled?"
"But," said Harry, ewildered, "ut last year, you said one of us would have to kill the other --"
"Harry, Harry, only ecause Voldemort made a grave error, and acted on Professor Trelawneys words! If Voldemort had never murdered your father, would he have imparted in you a furious desire for revenge? Of course not! If he had not forced your mother to die for you, would he have given you a magical protection he could not penetrate? Of course not, Harry! Dont you see? Voldemort himself created his worst enemy, just as tyrants everywhere do! Have you any idea how much tyrants fear the people they oppress? All of them realize that, one day, amongst their many victims, there is sure to e one who rises against them and strikes ack! Voldemort is no different! Always he was on the lookout for the one who would challenge him. He heard the prophecy and he leapt into ac-tion, with the result that he not only handpicked the man most likely to finish him, he handed him uniquely deadly weapons!"
"But --"
"It is essential that you understand this!" said Dumledore, standing up and striding aout the room, his glittering roes swooshing in his wake; Harry had never seen him so agitated. "By attempting to kill you, Voldemort himself singled out the remark-ale person who sits here in front of me, and gave him the tools for the jo! It is Voldemorts fault that you were ale to see into his thoughts, his amitions, that you even understand the snakelike language in which he gives orders, and yet, Harry, despite your privileged insight into Voldemorts world (which, incidentally, is a gift any Death Eater would kill to have), you have never een se-duced y the Dark Arts, never, even for a second, shown the slight-est desire to ecome one of Voldemorts followers!"
"Of course I havent!" said Harry indignantly. "He killed my mum and dad!"
"You are protected, in short, y your aility to love!" said Dum-ledore loudly. "The only protection that can possily work against the lure of power like Voldemorts! In spite of all the temptation you have endured, all the suffering, you remain pure of heart, just as pure as you were at the age of eleven, when you stared into a mir-ror that reflected your hearts desire, and it showed you only the way to thwart Lord Voldemort, and not immortality or riches. Harry, have you any idea how few wizards could have seen what you saw in that mirror? Voldemort should have known then what he was dealing with, ut he did not! But he knows it now. You have flitted into Lord Voldemorts mind without damage to yourself, ut he cannot possess you
with-out enduring mortal agony, as he discovered in the Ministry. I do not think he understands why, Harry, ut then, he was in such a hurry to mutilate his own soul, he never paused to understand the incomparale power of a soul that is untarnished and whole."
"But, sir," said Harry, making valiant efforts not to sound argu-mentative, "it all comes to the same thing, doesnt it? Ive got to try and kill him, or --"
"Got to?" said Dumledore. "Of course youve got to! But not ecause of the prophecy! Because you, yourself, will never rest until youve tried! We oth know it! Imagine, please, just for a moment,
that you had never heard that prophecy! How would you feel aout Voldemort now? Think!"
Harry watched Dumledore striding up and down in front ol him, and thought. He thought of his mother, his father, and Sinus. He thought of Cedric Diggory. He thought of all the terrile deeds he knew Lord Voldemort had done. A flame seemed to leap inside his chest, searing his throat.
"Id want him finished," said Harry quietly. "And Id want to do it."
"Of course you would!" cried Dumledore. "You see, the prophecy does not mean you have to do anything! But the prophecy caused Lord Voldemort to mark you as his equal. ... In other words, you are free to choose your way, quite free to turn your ack on the prophecy! But Voldemort continues to set
store y the prophecy. He will continue to hunt you . . . which makes it certain, really, that --"
"That one of us is going to end up killing the other," said Harry. "Yes."
But he understood at last what Dumledore had een trying to tell him. It was, he thought, the difference etween eing dragged into the arena to face a attle to the death and walking into the arena with your head held high. Some people, perhaps, would say that there was little to choose etween the two ways, ut Dumle-dore knew -- and so do I, thought Harry, with a rush of fierce pride, and so did my parents -- that there was all the difference in the world.
Chapter 24: Sectumsempra
Exhausted ut delighted with his nights work, Harry told Ron and Hermione everything that had happened during next mornings Charms lesson (having first cast the Muffliato spell upon those nearest them). They were oth satisfyingly impressed y the way he had wheedled the memory out of Slughorn and positively awed when he told them aout Voldemorts Horcruxes and Dumledores promise to take Harry along, should he find another one.
"Wow," said Ron, when Harry had finally finished telling them everything; Ron was waving his wand very vaguely in the direction of the ceiling without paying the slightest it of attention to what he was doing. "Wow. Youre actually going to go with Dumledore . . . and try and destroy . . . wow."
"Ron, youre making it snow," said Hermione patiently, graing his wrist and redirecting his wand away from the ceiling from which, sure enough, large white flakes had started to fall. Lavender Brown, Harry noticed, glared at Hermione from a neighoring tale through very red eyes, and Hermione immediately let go of Rons arm.
"Oh yeah," said Ron, looking down at his shoulders in vague surprise. "Sorry... looks like weve all got horrile dandruff now. ..."
He rushed some of the fake snow off Hermiones shoulder Lavender urst into tears. Ron looked immensely guilty and turned his ack on her.
"We split up," he told Harry out of the corner of his mouth, "Last night. When she saw me coming out of the dormitory with Hermione. Oviously she couldnt see you, so she thought it had just een the two of us."
"Ah," said Harry. "Well -- you dont mind its over, do you?", "No," Ron admitted. "It was pretty ad while she was yelling, ut at least I didnt have to finish it."
"Coward," said Hermione, though she looked amused. "Well, it was a ad night for romance all around. Ginny and Dean split up too, Harry."
Harry thought there was a rather knowing look in her eye as she told him that, ut she could not possily know that his insides were suddenly dancing the conga. Keeping his face as immoile and his voice as indifferent as he could, he asked, "How come?"
"Oh, something really silly . . . She said he was always trying to help her through the portrait hole, like she couldnt clim in herself . . . ut theyve een a it rocky for ages."
Harry glanced over at Dean on the other side of the classroom. He certainly looked unhappy.
"Of course, this puts you in a it of a dilemma, doesnt it?" said Hermione.
"What dyou mean?" said Harry quickly.
"The Quidditch team," said Hermione. "If Ginnyand Dean arent speaking . . ."
"Oh -- oh yeah," said Harry.
"Flitwick," said Ron in a warning tone. The tiny little Charms master was oing his way toward them, and Hermione was the only one who had managed to turn vinegar into wine; her glass flask was full of deep crimson liquid, whereas the contents of Harrys and Rons were still murky rown.
"Now, now, oys," squeaked Professor Flitwick reproachfully. "A little less talk, a little more action . . . Let me see you try. . . ."
Together they raised their wands, concentrating with all their might, and pointed them at their flasks. Harrys vinegar turned to ice; Rons flask exploded.
"Yes ... for homework," said Professor Flitwick, reemerging from under the tale and pulling shards of glass out of the top of his hat, "practice."
They had one of their rare joint free periods after Charms and walked ack to the common room together. Ron seemed to e positively lighthearted aout the end of his relationship with Lavender, and Hermione seemed cheery too, though when asked what she was grinning aout she simply said, "Its a nice day." Neither of them seemed to have noticed that a fierce attle was raging inside Harrys rain:
Shes Rons sister.
But shes ditched Dean!
Shes still Rons sister.
Im his est mate!
Thatll make it worse.
If I talked to him first --
Hed hit you.
What if I dont care?
Hes your est mate!
Harry arely noticed that they were climing through the portrait hole into the sunny common room, and only vaguely registered the small group of seventh years clustered together there, until Hermione cried, "Katie! Youre ack! Are you okay?"
Harry stared: It was indeed Katie Bell, looking completely healthy and surrounded y her juilant friends.
"Im really well!" she said happily. "They let me out of St. Mungos on Monday, I had a couple of days at home with Mum and Dad and then came ack here this morning. Leanne was just telling me aout McLaggen and the last match, Harry. . . ."
"Yeah," said Harry, "well, now youre ack and Rons fit, well have a decent chance of thrashing Ravenclaw, which means we could still e in the running for the Cup. Listen, Katie . . ."
He had to put the question to her at once; his curiosity even drove Ginny temporarily from his rain. He dropped his voice as Katies friends started gathering up their things; apparently they were late for Transfiguration.
". . . that necklace . . . can you rememer who gave it to you now?"
"No," said Katie, shaking her head ruefully. "Everyones een asking me, ut I havent got a clue. The last thing I rememer was walking into the ladies in the Three Broomsticks."
"You definitely went into the athroom, then?" said Hermione.
"Well, I know I pushed open the door," said Katie, "so I suppose whoever Imperiused me was standing just ehind it. After that, my memorys a lank
until aout two weeks ago in St. Mungos. Listen, Id etter go, I wouldnt put it past McGonagall to give me lines even if it is my first day ack. ..."
She caught up her ag and ooks and hurried after her friends, leaving Harry, Ron, and Hermione to sit down at a window tale and ponder what she had told them.
"So it must have een a girl or a woman who gave Katie the necklace," said Hermione, "to e in the ladies athroom."
"Or someone who looked like a girl or a woman," said Harry. "Dont forget, there was a cauldron full of Polyjuice Potion at Hog-warts. We know some of it got stolen. . . ."
In his minds eye, he watched a parade of Craes and Goyles prance past, all transformed into girls.
"I think Im going to take another swig of Felix," said Harry, "and have a go at the Room of Requirement again."
"That would e a complete waste of potion," said Hermione flatly, putting down the copy of Spellmans Syllaary she had just taken out of her ag. "Luck can only get you so far, Harry. The situation with Slughorn was different; you always had the aility to persuade him, you just needed to tweak the circumstances a it. Luck isnt enough to get you through a powerful enchantment, though. Dont go wasting the rest of that potion!
Youll need all the luck you can get if Dumledore takes you along with him ..." She dropped her voice to a whisper.
"Couldnt we make some more?" Ron asked Harry, ignoring Hermione. "Itd e great to have a stock of it. ... Have a look in the ook... "
Harry pulled his copy of Advanced Potion-Making out of his ap, and looked up Felix Felicis.
"Blimey, its seriously complicated," he said, running an eye down the list of ingredients. "And it takes six months.,. Youve got to let it stew. ..."
"Typical," said Ron.
Harry was aout to put his ook away again when he noticed the corner of a page folded down; turning to it, he saw the Sectum-sempra spell, captioned "For Enemies," that he had marked a few weeks previously. He had still not found out what it did, mainly ecause he did not want to test it around Hermione, ut he was considering trying it out on McLaggen next time he came up ehind him unawares.
The only person who was not particularly pleased to see Katie Bell ack at school was Dean Thomas, ecause he would no longer e required to fill her place as Chaser. He took the low stoically enough when Harry told him, merely grunting and shrugging, ut Harry had the distinct feeling as he walked away that Dean and Seamus were muttering mutinously ehind his ack.
The following fortnight saw the est Quidditch practices Harry had known as Captain. His team was so pleased to e rid of McLaggen, so glad to have Katie ack at last, that they were flying extremely well.
Ginny did not seem at all upset aout the reakup with Dean; on the contrary, she was the life and soul of the team. Her imitations of Ron anxiously oing up and down in front of the goal posts as the Quaffle sped toward him, or of Harry ellowing orders at McLaggen efore eing knocked out cold, kept them all highly amused. Harry, laughing with the others, was glad to have an innocent reason to look at Ginny; he had received several more Bludger injuries during practice ecause he had not een keeping his eyes on the Snitch.
The attle still raged inside his head: Ginny or Ron? Sometimes he thought that the post-Lavender Ron might not mind too much if he asked Ginny out, ut then he rememered Rons expression when he had seen her kissing Dean, and was sure that Ron would consider it ase treachery if Harry so much as held her hand. . . .
Yet Harry could not help himself talking to Ginny, laughing with her, walking ack from practice with her; however much his conscience ached, he found himself wondering how est to get her on her own. It would have een ideal if Slughorn had given another of his little parties, for Ron would not e around -- ut unfortunately, Slughorn seemed to have given them up. Once or twice Harry considered asking for Hermiones help, ut he did not think he could stand seeing the smug look on her face; he thought he caught
it sometimes when Hermione spotted him staring at Ginny or laughing at her jokes. And to complicate matters, he had the nagging worry that if he didnt do it, someody else was sure to ask Ginny out soon: He and Ron were at least agreed on the fact that she was too popular for her own good.
All in all, the temptation to take another gulp of Felix Felicis was ecoming stronger y the day, for surely this was a case for, as Hermione put it, "tweaking the circumstances"? The almy days slid gently through May, and Ron seemed to e there at Harrys shoulder every time he saw Ginny. Harry found himself longing for a stroke of luck that would somehow cause Ron to realize that nothing would make him happier than his est friend and his sister falling for each other and to leave them alone together for longer than a few seconds. There seemed no chance of either while the final Quidditch game of the season was looming; Ron wanted to talk tactics with Harry all the time and had little thought for anything else.
Ron was not unique in this respect; interest in the Gryffindor-Ravenclaw game was running extremely high throughout the school, for the match would decide the Championship, which was still wide open. If Gryffindor eat Ravenclaw y a margin of three hundred points (a tall order, and yet Harry had never known his team to fly etter) then they would win the Championship. If they won y less than three hundred points, they would come second to Ravenclaw; if they lost y a hundred points they would e third ehind Hufflepuff and if they lost y more than a hundred, they would e in fourth place and noody, Harry thought, would ever, ever let him forget that it had een he who had captained Gryffindor to their first ottom-of-the-tale defeat in two centuries.
The run-up to this crucial match had all the usual features: memers of rival Houses attempting to intimidate opposing teams in the corridors; unpleasant chants aout individual players eing rehearsed loudly as they passed; the team memers themselves either swaggering around enjoying all the attention or else dashing into athrooms etween classes to throw up. Somehow, the game had ecome inextricaly linked in Harrys mind with success or failure in his plans for Ginny. He could not help feeling that if they won y more than three hundred points, the scenes of euphoria and a nice loud after-match party might e just as good as a hearty swig of Felix Felicis.
In the midst of all his preoccupations, Harry had not forgotten his other amition: finding out what Malfoy was up to in the Room of Requirement. He was still checking the Marauders Map, and as he was unale to locate Malfoy on it, deduced that Malfoy was still spending plenty of time within the room. Although Harry was losing hope that he would ever succeed in getting inside the Room of Requirement, he attempted it whenever he was in the vicinity, ut no matter how he reworded his request, the wall remained firmly doorless.
A few days efore the match against Ravenclaw, Harry found himself walking down to dinner alone from the common room, Ron having rushed off into a neary athroom to throw up yet again, and Hermione having dashed off to see Professor Vector aout a mistake she thought she might have made in her last Arithmancy essay. More out of hait than anything, Harry made his usual detour along the seventh-floor corridor, checking the
Marauders Map as he went. For a moment he could not find Malfoy anywhere and assumed he must indeed e inside the Room of Requirement again, ut then he saw Malfoys tiny, laeled dot standing in a oys athroom on the floor elow, accompanied, not y Crae or Goyle, ut y Moaning Myrtle.
Harry only stopped staring at this unlikely coupling when he walked right into a suit of armor. The loud crash rought him out of his reverie; hurrying from the scene lest Filch turn up, he dashed down the marle staircase and along the passageway elow. Outside the athroom, he pressed his ear against the door. He could not hear anything. He very quietly pushed the door open.
Draco Malfoy was standing with his ack to the door, his hands clutching either side of the sink, his white-lond head owed.
"Dont," crooned Moaning Myrtles voice from one of the cuicles. "Dont. . . tell me whats wrong ... I can help you. . . ."
"No one can help me," said Malfoy. His whole ody was shaking. "I cant do it. ... I cant. ... It wont work . . . and unless 1 do it soon ... he says hell kill me. ..."
And Harry realized, with a shock so huge it seemed to root him to the spot, that Malfoy was crying -- actually crying -- tears streaming down his pale face into the grimy asin. Malfoy gasped and gulped and then, with a
great shudder, looked up into flu-cracked mirror and saw Harry staring at him over his shoulder.
Malfoy wheeled around, drawing his wand. Instinctively, Harry pulled out his own. Malfoys hex missed Harry y inches, shattering the lamp on the wall eside him; Harry threw himself sideways, thought Levicorpus! and flicked his wand, ut Malfoy locked the jinx and raised his wand for another --
"No! No! Stop it!" squealed Moaning Myrtle, her voice echoing loudly around the tiled room. "Stop! STOP!"
There was a loud ang and the in ehind Harry exploded; Harry attempted a Leg-Locker Curse that ackfired off the wall e-hind Malfoys ear and smashed the cistern eneath Moaning Myr-tle, who screamed loudly; water poured everywhere and Harry slipped as Malfoy, his face contorted, cried, "Cruci --"
"SECTUMSEMPRA!" ellowed Harry from the floor, waving his wand wildly.
Blood spurted from Malfoys face and chest as though he had een slashed with an invisile sword. He staggered ackward and collapsed onto the waterlogged floor with a great splash, his wand falling from his limp right hand.
"No --" gasped Harry.
Slipping and staggering, Harry got to his feet and plunged toward Malfoy, whose face was now shining scarlet, his white hands scraling at his lood-soaked chest.
"No -- I didnt --"
Harry did not know what he was saying; he fell to his knees eside Malfoy, who was shaking uncontrollaly in a pool of his own lood. Moaning Myrtle let out a deafening scream: "MURDER! MURDER IN THE BATHROOM! MURDER!"
The door anged open ehind Harry and he looked up, terrified: Snape had urst into the room, his face livid. Pushing Harry roughly aside, he knelt over Malfoy, drew his wand, and traced it over the deep wounds Harrys curse had made, muttering an incantation that sounded almost like song. The flow of lood seemed to ease; Snape wiped the residue from Malfoys face and repeated his spell. Now the wounds seemed to e knitting.
Harry was still watching, horrified y what he had done, arely aware that he too was soaked in lood and water. Moaning Myrtle was still soing and wailing overhead. When Snape had performed his countercurse for the third time, he half-lifted Malfoy into a standing position.
"You need the hospital wing. There may e a certain amount of scarring, ut if you take dittany immediately we might avoid even that.. . . Come...."
He supported Malfoy across the athroom, turning at the door to say in a voice of cold fury, "And you, Potter . . . You wait here for me."
It did not occur to Harry for a second to disoey. He stood up slowly, shaking, and looked down at the wet floor. There were loodstains floating like crimson flowers across its surface. He could not even find it in himself to tell Moaning Myrtle to e quiet, as she continued to wail and so with increasingly evident enjoyment.
Snape returned ten minutes later. He stepped into the athroom and closed the door ehind him.
"Go," he said to Myrtle, and she swooped ack into her toilet at once, leaving a ringing silence ehind her.
"I didnt mean it to happen," said Harry at once. His voice echoed in the cold, watery space. "I didnt know what that spell did."
But Snape ignored this. "Apparently I underestimated you, Potter," he said quietly. "Who would have thought you knew such Dark Magic? Who taught you that spell?"
"I -- read aout it somewhere."
"Where?"
"It was -- a lirary ook," Harry invented wildly. "I cant rememer what it was call --"
"Liar," said Snape. Harrys throat went dry. He knew what Snape was going to do and he had never een ale to prevent it. ...
The athroom seemed to shimmer efore his eyes; he struggled to lock out all thought, ut try as he might, the Half-Blood Princes copy of Advanced Potion-Making swam hazily to the forefront of his mind.
And then he was staring at Snape again, in the midst of this wrecked, soaked athroom. He stared into Snapes lack eyes, hoping against hope that Snape had not seen what he feared, ut --
"Bring me your schoolag," said Snape softly, "and all of your schoolooks. All of them. Bring them to me here. Now!"
There was no point arguing. Harry turned at once and splashed
out of the athroom. Once in the corridor, he roke into a run toward Gryffindor Tower. Most people were walking the other way; they gaped at him, drenched in water and lood, ut he answered none of the questions fired at him as he ran past.
He felt stunned; it was as though a eloved pet had turned suddenly savage; what had the Prince een thinking to copy such a spell into his ook? And what would happen when Snape saw it? Would he tell Slughorn
-- Harrys stomach churned -- how Harry had een achieving such good results in Potions all year? Would he confiscate or destroy the ook that had taught Harry so much . . . the ook that had ecome a kind of guide and friend? Harry could not let it happen. . . . He could not. . .
"Whereve you -- ? Why are you soaking -- ? Is that lood." Ron was standing at the top of the stairs, looking ewildered at , the sight of Harry.
"I need your ook," Harry panted. "Your Potions ook. Quick . . . give it to me . . ."
"But what aout the Half-Blood --"
"Ill explain later!"
Ron pulled his copy of Advanced Potion-Making out of his ag and handed it over; Harry sprinted off past him and ack to the common room. Here, he seized his schoolag, ignoring the amazed looks of several people who had already finished their dinner, threw himself ack out of the portrait hole, and hurtled off along the seventh-floor corridor.
He skidded to a halt eside the tapestry of dancing trolls, closed his eyes, and egan to walk.
I need a place to hide my ook. . . . I need a place to hide my ook. . . . I need a place to hide my ook. ...
Three times he walked up and down in front of the stretch of lank wall. When he opened his eyes, there it was at last: the door to the Room of Requirement. Harry wrenched it open, flung him self inside, and slammed it shut.
He gasped. Despite his haste, his panic, his fear of what awaited him ack in the athroom, he could not help ut e overawed y what he was looking at. He was standing in a room the size of a large cathedral, whose high windows were sending shafts of light down upon what looked like a city with towering walls, uilt of what Harry knew must e ojects hidden y generations of Hogwarts inhaitants. There were alleyways and roads ordered y tetering piles of roken and damaged furniture, stowed away, perhaps, to hide the evidence of mishandled magic, or else hidden y castle-proud house-elves. There were thousands and thousands of ooks, no dout anned or graffitied or stolen. There were winged catapults and Fanged Frisees, some still with enough life in them to hover halfheartedly over the mountains of other foridden items; there were chipped ottles of congealed potions, hats, jewels, cloaks; there were what looked like dragon eggshells, corked ottles whose contents still shimmered evilly, several rusting swords, and a heavy, loodstained axe.
Harry hurried forward into one of the many alleyways etween all this hidden treasure. He turned right past an enormous stuffed troll, ran on a short way, took a left at the roken Vanishing Cainet in which Montague had got lost the previous year, finally pausing eside a large cupoard that seemed to have had acid thrown at its listered surface. He opened one of the cupoards creaking doors: It had already een used as a hiding place for
something in a cage that had long since died; its skeleton had five legs. He stuffed the Half-Blood Princes ook ehind the cage and slammed the door. He paused for a moment, his heart thumping horrily, gazing around at all the clutter. . . . Would he e ale to find this spot again amidst all this junk? Seizing the chipped ust of an ugly old warlock from on top of a neary crate, he stood it on top of the cupoard where the ook was now hidden, perched a dusty old wig and a tarnished tiara on the statues head to make it more distinctive, then sprinted ack through the alleyways of hidden junk as fast as he could go, ack to the door, ack out onto the corridor, where he slammed the door ehind him, and it turned at once ack into stone.
Harry ran flat-out toward the athroom on the floor elow, cramming Rons copy of Advanced Potion-Making into his ag as he did so. A minute later, he was ack in front of Snape, who held out his hand wordlessly for Harrys schoolag. Harry handed it over, panting, a searing pain in his chest, and waited.
One y one, Snape extracted Harrys ooks and examined them., Finally, the only ook left was the Potions ook, which he looked at very carefully efore speaking.
"This is your copy of Advanced Potion-Making, is it, Potter?"
"Yes," said Harry, still reathing hard.
"Youre quite sure of that, are you, Potter?"
"Yes," said Harry, with a touch more defiance.
"This is the copy of Advanced Potion-Making that you purchased from Flourish and Blotts?"
"Yes," said Harry firmly.
"Then why," asked Snape, "does it have the name Roonil Wazli written inside the front cover?"
Harrys heart missed a eat. "Thats my nickname," he said. 
"Your nickname," repeated Snape. ; "Yeah . . . thats what my friends call me," said Harry.
"I understand what a nickname is," said Snape. The cold, lack eyes were oring once more into Harrys; he tried not to look into them. Close your mind. . . . Close your mind. . . . But he had never learned how to do it properly. . . .
"Do you know what I think, Potter?" said Snape, very quietly. "I think that you are a liar and a cheat and that you deserve detention with me every Saturday until the end of term. "What do you think, Potter?"
"I -- I dont agree, sir," said Harry, still refusing to look into Snapes eyes.
"Well, we shall see how you feel after your detentions," said Snape. "Ten oclock Saturday morning, Potter. My office."
"But sir . . ." said Harry, looking up desperately. "Quidditch . . . the last match of the ..."
"Ten oclock," whispered Snape, with a smile that showed his yellow teeth. "Poor Gryffindor. . . fourth place this year, I fear ..."
And he left the athroom without another word, leaving Harry to stare into the cracked mirror, feeling sicker, he was sure, than Ron had ever felt in his life.
"I wont say I told you so," said Hermione, an hour later in the common room.
"Leave it, Hermione," said Ron angrily.
Harry had never made it to dinner; he had no appetite at all. He had just finished telling Ron, Hermione, and Ginny what had happened, not that there seemed to have een much need. The news had traveled very fast: Apparently Moaning Myrtle had taken it upon herself to pop up in every athroom in the castle to tell the story; Malfoy had already een visited in the hospital wing y Pansy Parkinson, who had lost no time in vilifying Harry far and wide, and Snape had told the staff precisely what had happened. Harry had already een called out of the common room to endure fifteen highly unpleasant minutes in the company of Professor McGonagall,
who had told him he was lucky not to have een expelled and that she supported wholeheartedly Snapes punishment of detention every Saturday until the end of term.
"I told you there was something wrong with that Prince person," Hermione said, evidently unale to stop herself. "And I was right, wasnt I."
"No, I dont think you were," said Harry stuornly.
He was having a ad enough time without Hermione lecturing him; the looks on the Gryffindor teams faces when he had told them he would not e ale to play on Saturday had een the worst punishment of all. He could feel Ginnys eyes on him now ut did not meet them; he did not want to see disappointment or anger there. He had just told her that she would e playing Seeker on Saturday and that Dean would e rejoining the team as Chaser in her place. Perhaps, if they won, Ginny and Dean would make up during the post-match euphoria. . . . The thought went through Harry like an icy knife. . . .
"Harry," said Hermione, "how can you still stick up for that ook when that spell --"
"Will you stop harping on aout the ook!" snapped Harry. "The Prince only copied it out! Its not like he was advising anyone to use it! For all we know, he was making a note of something that had een used against him!"
"I dont elieve this," said Hermione. "Youre actually defending--
"Im not defending what I did!" said Harry quickly. "I wish 1 ; hadnt done it, and not just ecause Ive got aout a dozen detentions. You know I wouldntve used a spell like that, not even on Malfoy, ut you cant lame the Prince, he hadnt written try this out, its really good -- he was just making notes for himself, wasnt he, not for anyone else. . . ."
"Are you telling me," said Hermione, "that youre going to go ack -- ?"
"And get the ook? Yeah, I am," said Harry forcefully. "Listen, without the Prince Id never have won the Felix Felicis. Id never have known how to save Ron from poisoning, Id never have --"
"-- got a reputation for Potions rilliance you dont deserve," said Hermione nastily.
"Give it a rest, Hermione!" said Ginny, and Harry was so amazed, so grateful, he looked up. "By the sound of it, Malfoy was trying to use an Unforgivale Curse, you should e glad Harry had something good up his sleeve!"
"Well, of course Im glad Harry wasnt cursed!" said Hermione, clearly stung. "But you cant call that Sectumsempra spell good, Ginny, look where its landed him! And Id have thought, seeing what this has done to your chances in the match --"
"Oh, dont start acting as though you understand Quidditch," snapped Ginny, "youll only emarrass yourself."
Harry and Ron stared: Hermione and Ginny, who had always got on together very well, were now sitting with their arms folded, glaring in opposite directions. Ron looked nervously at Harry, then snatched up a ook at random and hid ehind it. Harry, however,
little though he knew he deserved it, felt unelievaly cheerful all of a sudden, even though none of them spoke again for the rest of the evening.
His lightheartedness was short-lived. There were Slytherin taunts to e endured next day, not to mention much anger from fellow Gryffindors, who were most unhappy that their Captain had got himself anned from the final match of the season. By Saturday morning, whatever he might have told Hermione, Harry would have gladly exchanged all the Felix Felicis in the world to e walking down to the Quidditch pitch with Ron, Ginny, and the others. It was almost unearale to turn away from the mass of students streaming out into the sunshine, all of them wearing rosettes and hats and randishing anners and scarves, to descend the stone steps into the dungeons and walk until the distant sounds of the crowd were quite oliterated, knowing that he would not e ale to hear a word of commentary or a cheer or groan.
"Ah, Potter," said Snape, when Harry had knocked on his door and entered the unpleasantly familiar office that Snape, despite teaching floors aove now, had not vacated; it was as dimly lit as ever and the same slimy
dead ojects were suspended in colored potions all around the walls. Ominously, there were many co-weed oxes piled on a tale where Harry was clearly supposed to sit; they had an aura of tedious, hard, and pointless work aout them.
"Mr. Filch has een looking for someone to clear out these old files," said Snape softly. "They are the records of other Hogwarts wrongdoers and their punishments. Where the ink has grown faint, or the cards have suffered damage from mice, we would like you to copy out the crimes and punishments afresh and, making sure that they are in alphaetical order, replace them in the oxes. You will not use magic."
"Right, Professor," said Harry, with as much contempt as he could put into the last three syllales.
"I thought you could start," said Snape, a malicious smile on his lips, "with oxes one thousand and twelve to one thousand and fifty-six. You will find some familiar names in there, which should add interest to the task. Here, you see . . ."
He pulled out a card from one of the topmost oxes with a flourish and read, "James Potter and Sirius Black. Apprehended using an illegal hex upon Bertram Aurey. Aureys head twice normal size. Doule detention." Snape sneered. "It must e such a comforting thing that, though they are gone, a record of their great achievements remains."
Harry felt the familiar oiling sensation in the pit of his stomach. Biting his tongue to prevent himself retaliating, he sat down in front of the oxes and pulled one toward him.
It was, as Harry had anticipated, useless, oring work, punctuated (as Snape had clearly planned) with the regular jolt in the stomach that meant he had just read his father or Siriuss names, usually coupled together in various petty misdeeds, occasionally accompanied y those of Remus Lupin and Peter Pettigrew. And while he copied out all their various offenses and punishments, he wondered what was going on outside, where the match would have just started . . . Ginny playing Seeker against Cho . . .
Harry glanced again and again at the large clock ticking on the wall. It seemed to e moving half as fast as a regular clock; perhaps Snape had ewitched it to go extra slowly? He could not have een here for only half an hour ... an hour ... an hour and a half. . . .
Harrys stomach started rumling when the clock showed half past twelve. Snape, who had not spoken at all since setting Harry his task, finally looked up at ten past one.
"I think that will do," he said coldly. "Mark the place you have reached. You will continue at ten oclock next Saturday." Yes, sir.
Harry stuffed a ent card into the ox at random and hurried out of the door efore Snape could change his mind, racing ack up the stone steps,
straining his ears to hear a sound from the pitch, ut all was quiet. ... It was over, then. . . .
He hesitated outside the crowded Great Hall, then ran up the marle staircase; whether Gryffindor had won or lost, the team usually celerated or commiserated in their own common room.
"Quid agis?" he said tentatively to the Fat Lady, wondering what he would find inside.
Her expression was unreadale as she replied, "Youll see."
And she swung forward.
A roar of celeration erupted from the hole ehind her. Harry gaped as people egan to scream at the sight of him; several hands pulled him into the room.
"We won!" yelled Ron, ounding into sight and randishing the silver Cup at Harry. "We won! Four hundred and fifty to a hundred and forty! We won!"
Harry looked around; there was Ginny running toward him; she had a hard, lazing look in her face as she threw her arms around him. And without thinking, without planning it, without worrying aout the fact that fifty people were watching, Harry kissed her.
After several long moments -- or it might have een half an hour -- or possily several sunlit days -- they roke apart. The room had gone very quiet. Then several people wolf-whistled and there was an outreak of nervous giggling. Harry looked over the top of Ginnys head to see Dean Thomas holding a shattered glass in his hand, and Romilda Vane looking as though she might throw something. Hermione was eaming, ut Harrys eyes sought Ron. At last he found him, still clutching the Cup and wearing an expression appropriate to having een clued over the head. For a fraction of a second they looked at each other, then Ron gave a tiny jerk of the head that Harry understood to mean, Well--if you must.
The creature in his chest roaring in triumph, he grinned down at Ginny and gestured wordlessly out of the portrait hole. A long walk in the grounds seemed indicated, during which -- if they had time -- they might discuss the match.
Chapter 25: The Seer Overheard
The fact that Harry Potter was going out with Ginny Weasley seemed to interest a great numer of people, most of them girls, yet Harry found himself newly and happily impervious to gossip over the next few weeks. After all, it made a very nice change to e talked aout ecause of something that was making him happier than he could rememer eing for a very long time, rather than ecause he had een involved in hor-rific scenes of Dark magic.
Youd think people had etter things to gossip aout, said Ginny, as she sat on the common-room floor, leaning against Harrys legs and reading the Daily Prophet. Three Dementor attacks in a week, and all Romilda Vane does is ask me if its true youve got a Hippogriff tattooed across your chest.
Ron and Hermione oth roared with laughter. Harry ignored them.
What did you tell her?
 ? told her its a Hungarian Horntail, said Ginny, turning a page of the newspaper idly. Much more macho.
Thanks, said Harry, grinning. And what did you tell her Rons got?
A Pygmy Puff, ut I didnt say where.
Ron scowled as Hermione rolled around laughing.
Watch it, he said, pointing wamingly at Harry and Ginny. Just ecause Ive given my permission doesnt mean I cant withdraw it -
"Tour permission", scoffed Ginny. Since when did you give me permission to do anything? Anyway, you said yourself youd rather it was Harry than Michael or Dean.
Yeah, 1 would, said Ron grudgingly. And just as long as you dont start snogging each other in pulic -
You filthy hypocrite! What aout you and Lavender, thrash-ing around like a pair of eels all over the place? demanded Ginny.
But Rons tolerance was not to e tested much as they moved into June, for Harry and Ginnys time together was ecoming increasingly restricted. Ginnys O.W.L.s were approaching and she was therefore forced to revise for hours into the night. On one such evening, when Ginny had retired to the lirary and Harry was sitting eside the window in the common room, supposedly finishing his Herology home-work ut in reality reliving a particularly happy hour he had spent down y the lake with Ginny at lunch-time, Hermione dropped into the seat etween him and Ron with an unpleasantly purposeful look on her face.
I want to talk to you, Harry.
What aout? said Harry suspiciously. Only the previous day, Hermione had told him off for distracting Ginny when she ought to e working hard for her examinations.
The so-called Half-Blood Prince.
Oh, not again, he groaned. Will you please drop it?
He had not dared to return to the Room of Requirement to retrieve his ook, and his performance in Potions was suffer-ing accordingly (though Slughorn, who approved of Ginny, had jocularly attriuted this to Harry eing lovesick). But Harry was sure that Snape had not yet given up hope of laying hands on the Princes ook, and was determined to leave it where it was while Snape remained on the lookout.
Im not dropping it, said Hermione firmly, until youve heard me out. Now, Ive een trying to find out a it aout who might make a hoy of inventing Dark spells -
He didnt make a hoy of it -
He, he - who says its a he?
Weve een through this, said Harry crossly. Prince, Hermione, Prince!
Right! said Hermione, red patches lazing in her cheeks as she pulled a very old piece of newsprint out of her pocket and slammed it down on the tale in front of Harry. Look at that! Look at the picture!
Harry picked up the crumling piece of paper and stared at the moving photograph, yellowed with age; Ron leaned over for a look, too. The picture showed a skinny girl of around fifteen. She was not pretty; she looked simultaneously cross and sullen, with heavy rows and a long, pallid face. Under-neath the photograph was the caption: Eileen Prince, Captain of the Hogwarts Gostones Team.
So? said Harry, scanning the short news item to which the picture elonged; it was a rather dull story aout inter-school competitions.
Her name was Eileen Prince. Prince, Harry.
They looked at each other and Harry realised what Hermione was trying to say. He urst out laughing.
No way.
What?
You think she was the Half-Blood ...? Oh, come on.
Well, why not? Harry, there arent any real princes in the wizarding world! Its either a nickname, a made-up title someodys given themselves,
or it could e their actual name, couldnt it? No, listen! If, say, her father was a wizard
whose surname was "Prince", and her mother was a Muggle, then that would make her a "half-lood Prince"!
Yeah, very ingenious, Hermione ...
But it would! Maye she was proud of eing half a Prince!
Listen, Hermione, I can tell its not a girl. I can just tell.
The truth is that you dont think a girl would have een clever enough, said Hermione angrily.
How can I have hung round with you for five years and not think girls are clever? said Harry, stung y this. Its the way he writes. I just know the Prince was a loke, I can tell. This girl hasnt got anything to do with it. Where did you get this, anyway?
‘The lirary, said Hermione, predictaly. Theres a whole collection of old Prophets up there. Well, Im going to find out more aout Eileen Prince if I can.
Enjoy yourself, said Harry irritaly.
I will, said Hermione. And the first place Ill look, she shot at him, as she reached the portrait hole, is records of old Potions awards!
Harry scowled after her for a moment, then continued his contemplation of the darkening sky.
Shes just never got over you outperforming her in Potions, said Ron, returning to his copy of One Thousand Magical Hers and Fungi.
You dont think Im mad, wanting that ook ack, do you?
Course not, said Ron roustly. He was a genius, the Prince. Anyway ... without his ezoar tip ... he drew his finger significantly across his own throat, I wouldnt e here to discuss it, would I? I mean, Im not saying that spell you used on Malfoy was great -
Nor am I, said Harry quickly.
But he healed all right, didnt he? Back on his feet in no time.
Yeah, said Harry; this was perfectly true, although his con-science squirmed slightly all the same. Thanks to Snape ...
You still got detention with Snape this Saturday? Ron continued.
Yeah, and the Saturday after that, and the Saturday after that, sighed Harry. And hes hinting now that if I dont get all the oxes done y the end of term, well carry on next year.
He was finding these detentions particularly irksome ecause they cut into the already limited time he could have een spending with Ginny. Indeed, he had frequently won-dered lately whether Snape did not know this, for he was keeping Harry later and later every time, while making pointed asides aout Harry having to miss the good weather and the varied opportunities it offered.
Harry was shaken from these itter reflections y the appearance at his side of Jimmy Peakes, who was holding out a scroll of parchment.
‘Thanks, Jimmy ... hey, its from Dumledore! said Harry excitedly, unrolling the parchment and scanning it. He wants me to go to his office as quick as 1 can!
They stared at each other.
Blimey, whispered Ron. You dont reckon ... he hasnt found ...?
Better go and see, hadnt I? said Harry, jumping to his feet.
He hurried out of the common room and along the seventh floor as fast as he could, passing noody ut Peeves, who swooped past in the opposite direction, throwing its of chalk at Harry in a routine sort of way and
cackling loudly as he dodged Harrys defensive jinx. Once Peeves had vanished, there was silence in the corridors; with only fifteen minutes left until curfew, most people had already returned to their common rooms.
And then Harry heard a scream and a crash. He stopped in his tracks, listening.
How - dare - you - aaaaargh!
The noise was coming from a corridor neary; Harry sprinted towards it, his wand at the ready, hurtled round another corner and saw Professor Trelawney sprawled upon the floor, her head covered in one of her many shawls, several sherry ottles lying eside her, one roken.
Professor -
Harry hurried forwards and helped Professor Trelawney to her feet. Some of her glittering eads had ecome entangled with her glasses. She hiccoughed loudly, patted her hair and pulled herself up on Harrys helping arm.
What happened, Professor?
You may well ask! she said shrilly. I was strolling along, rooding upon certain Dark portents 1 happen to have glimpsed ...
But Harry was not paying much attention. He had just noticed where they were standing: there on the right was the tapestry of dancing trolls and, on the left, that smoothly impenetrale stretch of stone wall that concealed -
Professor, were you trying to get into the Room of Requirement?
... omens I have een vouchsafed - what?
She looked suddenly shifty.
The Room of Requirement, repeated Harry. Were you try-ing to get in there?
I - well - I didnt know students knew aout -
Not all of them do, said Harry. But what happened? You screamed ... it sounded as though you were hurt...
I - well, said Professor Trelawney, drawing her shawls around her defensively and staring down at him with her vastly magnified eyes. I wished to - ah - deposit certain – um - personal items in the Room ... And she muttered something aout nasty accusations.
Right, said Harry, glancing down at the sherry ottles. But you couldnt get in and hide them?
He found this very odd; the Room had opened for him, after all, when he had wanted to hide the Half-Blood Princes ook.
Oh, I got in all right, said Professor Trelawney, glaring at the wall. But there was someody already in there.
Someody in -? Who? demanded Harry. Who was in there?
 ? have no idea, said Professor Trelawney, looking slightly taken aack at the urgency in Harrys voice. I walked into the Room and I heard a voice, which has never happened efore in all my years of hiding - of using the Room, I mean.
A voice? Saying what?
I dont know that it was saying anything, said Professor Trelawney. It was ... whooping.
Whooping?
Gleefully, she said, nodding.
Harry stared at her.
Was it male or female?
 ? would hazard a guess at male, said Professor Trelawney.
And it sounded happy?
Very happy, said Professor Trelawney sniffily.
As though it was celerating?
Most definitely.
And then -?
And then I called out, "Whos there?"
You couldnt have found out who it was without asking? Harry asked her, slightly frustrated.
‘The Inner Eye, said Professor Trelawney with dignity, straightening her shawls and many strands of glittering eads, was fixed upon matters well outside the mundane realms of whooping voices.
Right, said Harry hastily; he had heard aout Professor Trelawneys Inner Eye all too often efore. And did the voice say who was there?
No, it did not, she said. Everything went pitch lack and the next thing I knew, I was eing hurled headfirst out of the Room!
And you didnt see that coming? said Harry, unale to help himself.
No, I did not, as I say, it was pitch - She stopped and glared at him suspiciously.
I think youd etter tell Professor Dumledore, said Harry. He ought to know Malfoys celerating - I mean, that some-one threw you out of the Room.
To his surprise, Professor Trelawney drew herself up at this suggestion, looking haughty.
The Headmaster has intimated that he would prefer fewer visits from me, she said coldly. I am not one to press my company upon those who do not value it. If Dumledore chooses to ignore the warnings the cards show -
Her ony hand closed suddenly around Harrys wrist.
Again and again, no matter how I lay them out -
And she pulled a card dramatically from underneath her shawls.
- the lightning-struck tower, she whispered. Calamity. Disaster. Coming nearer all the time ...
Right, said Harry again. Well ... I still think you should tell Dumledore aout this voice and everything going dark and eing thrown out of the Room ...
You think so? Professor Trelawney seemed to consider the matter for a moment, ut Harry could tell that she liked the idea of retelling her little adventure.
Im going to see him right now, said Harry. Ive got a meeting with him. We could go together.
Oh, well, in that case, said Professor Trelawney with a smile. She ent down, scooped up her sherry ottles and dumped them unceremoniously in a large lue and white vase standing in a neary niche.
I miss having you in my classes, Harry, she said soulfully, as they set off together. You were never much of a Seer ... ut you were a wonderful Oject...
Harry did not reply; he had loathed eing the Oject of Professor Trelawneys continual predictions of doom.
I am afraid, she went on, that the nag - Im sorry, the centaur - knows nothing of cartomancy. I asked him - one Seer to another - had he not, too, sensed the distant vira-tions of coming catastrophe? But he seemed to find me almost comical. Yes, comical!
Her voice rose rather hysterically and Harry caught a powerful whiff of sherry even though the ottles had een left ehind.
Perhaps the horse has heard people say that I have not inherited my great-great-grandmothers gift. Those rumours have een andied aout y the jealous for years. You know what I say to such people, Harry? Would Dumledore have let me teach at this great school, put so much trust in me all these years, had I not proved myself to him?
Harry mumled something indistinct.
I well rememer my first interview with Dumledore, went on Professor Trelawney, in throaty tones. He was deeply impressed, of course, deeply impressed ... I was staying at the Hogs Head, which I do not advise, incidentally - ed ugs, dear oy - ut funds were low. Dumledore did me the courtesy of calling upon me in my room at the inn. He questioned me ... I must confess that, at first, I thought he seemed ill-disposed towards Divination ... and I rememer I was starting to feel a little odd, I had not eaten much that day ... ut then ...
And now Harry was paying attention properly for the first time, for he knew what had happened then: Professor Trelawney had made the prophecy that had altered the course of his whole life, the prophecy aout him and Voldemort.
... ut then we were rudely interrupted y Severus Snape!
What?
Yes, there was a commotion outside the door and it flew open, and there was that rather uncouth arman standing with Snape, who was waffling aout having come the wrong way up the stairs, although Im afraid that I myself rather thought he had een apprehended eavesdropping on my interview with Dumledore - you see, he himself was seeking a jo at the time, and no dout hoped to pick up tips! Well, after that, you know, Dumledore seemed much more dis-posed to give me a jo, and I could not help thinking, Harry, that it was ecause he appreciated the stark contrast etween my own unassuming manners and quiet talent, compared to the pushing, thrusting young man who was prepared to listen at keyholes - Harry, dear?
She looked ack over her shoulder, having only just real-ised that Harry was no longer with her; he had stopped walking and they were now ten feet from each other.
Harry? she repeated uncertainly.
Perhaps his face was white, to make her look so concerned and frightened. Harry was standing stock-still as waves of shock crashed over him, wave after wave, oliterating every-thing except the information that had een kept from him for so long ...
It was Snape who had overheard the prophecy. It was Snape who had carried the news of the prophecy to Voldemort. Snape and Peter Pettigrew together had sent Voldemort hunt-ing after Lily and James and their son ...
Nothing else mattered to Harry just now.
Harry? said Professor Trelawney again. Harry - I thought we were going to see the Headmaster together?
You stay here, said Harry through num lips.
But, dear ... I was going to tell him how I was assaulted in the Room of-
You stay here! Harry repeated angrily.
She looked alarmed as he ran past her, round the corner into Dumledores corridor, where the lone gargoyle stood sentry. Harry shouted the password at the gargoyle and ran up the moving spiral staircase three steps at a time. He did not knock upon Dumledores door, he hammered; and the calm voice answered Enter after Harry had already flung himself into the room.
Fawkes the phoenix looked round, his right lack eyes gleaming with reflected gold from the sunset eyond the window. Dumledore was standing at the window look-ing out at the grounds, a long, lack travelling cloak in his arms.
Well, Harry, I promised that you could come with me.
For a moment or two, Harry did not understand; the con-versation with Trelawney had driven everything else out of his head and his rain seemed to e moving very slowly.
Come ... with you ... ?
Only if you wish it, of course.
If I...
And then Harry rememered why he had een eager to come to Dumledores office in the first place.
Youve found one? Youve found a Horcrux?
I elieve so.
Rage and resentment fought shock and excitement: for several moments, Harry could not speak.
It is natural to e afraid, said Dumledore.
Im not scared! said Harry at once, and it was perfectly
true; fear was one emotion he was not feeling at all. Which Horcrux is it? Where is it?
I am not sure which it is - though I think we can rule out the snake - ut I elieve it to e hidden in a cave on the coast many miles from here, a cave I have een trying to locate for a very long time: the cave in which Tom Riddle once terror-ised two children from his orphanage on their annual trip; you rememer?
Yes, said Harry. How is it protected?
I do not know; I have suspicions that may e entirely wrong. Dumledore hesitated, then said, Harry, I promised you that you could come with me, and I stand y that prom-ise, ut it would e very wrong of me not to warn you that this will e exceedingly dangerous.
Im coming, said Harry, almost efore Dumledore had finished speaking. Boiling with anger at Snape, his desire to do something desperate and risky had increased tenfold in the last few minutes. This seemed to show on Harrys face, for Dumledore moved away from the window, and looked more closely at Harry, a slight crease etween his silver eyerows.
What has happened to you?
Nothing, lied Harry promptly.
What has upset you?
Im not upset.
Harry, you were never a good Occlumens -
The word was the spark that ignited Harrys fury.
Snape! he said, very loudly, and Fawkes gave a soft squawk ehind them. Snapes whats happened! He told Voldemort aout the prophecy, it was him, he listened outside the door, Trelawney told me!
Dumledores expression did not change, ut Harry thought his face whitened under the loody tinge cast y the setting sun. For a long moment, Dumledore said nothing.
When did you find out aout this? he asked at last.
Just now! said Many, who was refraining from yelling with enormous difficulty. And then, suddenly, he could not stop himself. AND YOU LET HIM TEACH HERE AND HE TOLD VOLDEMORT TO GO AFTER MY MUM AND DAD!
Breathing hard as though he were fighting, Harry turned away from Dumledore, who still had not moved a muscle, and paced up and down the study, ruing his knuckles in his hand and exercising every last it of restraint to prevent himself knocking things over. He wanted to rage and storm at Dumledore, ut he also wanted to go with him to try and destroy
the Horcrux; he wanted to tell him that he was a fool-ish old man for trusting Snape, ut he was terrified that Dumledore would not take him along unless he mastered his anger ...
Harry, said Dumledore quietly. Please listen to me.
It was as difficult to stop his relentless pacing as to refrain from shouting. Harry paused, iting his lip, and looked into Dumledores lined face.
Professor Snape made a terrile -
Dont tell me it was a mistake, sir, he was listening at the door!
Please let me finish. Dumledore waited until Harry had nodded curtly, then went on. Professor Snape made a terrile mistake. He was still in Lord Voldemorts employ on the night he heard the first half of Professor Trelawneys prophecy. Naturally, he hastened to tell his master what he had heard, for it concerned his master most deeply. But he did not know - he had no possile way of knowing - which oy Voldemort would hunt from then onwards, or that the parents he would destroy in his murderous quest were people that Professor Snape knew, that they were your mother and father -
Harry let out a yell of mirthless laughter.
He hated my dad like he hated Sirius! Havent you noticed, Professor, how the people Snape hates tend to end up dead?
You have no idea of the remorse Professor Snape felt when he realised how Lord Voldemort had interpreted the prophecy, Harry. I elieve it to e the greatest regret of his life and the reason that he returned -
But hes a very good Occlumens, isnt he, sir? said Harry, whose voice was shaking with the effort of keeping it steady. And isnt Voldemort convinced that Snapes on his side, even now? Professor ... how can you e sure Snapes on our side?
Dumledore did not speak for a moment; he looked as though he was trying to make up his mind aout something. At last he said, I am sure. I trust Severus Snape completely.
Harry reathed deeply for a few moments in an effort to steady himself. It did not work.
Well, I dont! he said, as loudly as efore. Hes up to something with Draco Malfoy right now, right under your nose, and you still -
We have discussed this, Harry, said Dumledore, and now he sounded stern again. I have told you my views.
Youre leaving the school tonight and Ill et you havent even considered that Snape and Malfoy might decide to -
To what? asked Dumledore, his eyerows raised. What is it that you suspect them of doing, precisely?
I ... theyre up to something! said Harry and his hands curled into fists as he said it. Professor Trelawney was just in the Room of Requirement, trying to hide her sherry ottles, and she heard Malfoy whooping, celerating! Hes trying to mend something dangerous in there and if you ask me hes fixed it at last and youre aout to just walk out of school * without -
Enough, said Dumledore. He said it quite calmly, and yet Harry fell silent at once; he knew that he had finally crossed some invisile line. Do you think that I have once left the school unprotected during my asences this year? I have not. Tonight, when I leave, there will again e additional protec-tion in place. Please do not suggest that I do not take the safety of my students seriously, Harry.
I didnt - mumled Harry, a little aashed, ut Dumledore cut across him.
 ? do not wish to discuss the matter any further.
Harry it ack his retort, scared that he had gone too far, that he had ruined his chance of accompanying Dumledore, ut Dumledore went on, Do you wish to come with me tonight?
Yes, said Harry at once.
Very well, then: listen.
Dumledore drew himself up to his full height.
I take you with me on one condition: that you oey any command I might give you at once, and without question.
Of course.
Be sure to understand me, Harry. I mean that you must follow even such orders as "run", "hide" or "go ack". Do I have your word?
I - yes, of course.
If 1 tell you to hide, you will do so?
Yes.
If I tell you to flee, you will oey?
Yes.
If I tell you to leave me, and save yourself, you will do as I tell you?
I -
Harry?
They looked at each other for a moment.
Yes, sir.
Very good. Then I wish you to go and fetch your Cloak and meet me in the Entrance Hall in five minutes time.
Dumledore turned ack to look out of the fiery window; the sun was now a ruy-red glare along the horizon. Harry walked quickly from the office and down the spiral staircase. His mind was oddly clear all of a sudden. He knew what to do.
Ron and Hermione were sitting together in the common room when he came ack. What does Dumledore want? Hermione said at once. Harry, are you OK? she added anxiously.
Im fine, said Harry shortly, racing past them. He dashed up the stairs and into his dormitory, where he flung open his trunk and pulled out the Marauders Map and a pair of alled-up socks. Then he sped ack down the stairs and into the common room, skidding to a halt where Ron and Hermione sat, looking stunned.
I havent got much time, Harry panted, Dumledore thinks Im getting my Invisiility Cloak. Listen ...
Quickly he told them where he was going, and why. He did not pause either for Hermiones gasps of horror or for Rons hasty questions; they could work out the finer details for themselves later.
... so you see what this means? Harry finished at a gallop. Dumledore wont e here tonight, so Malfoys going to have another clear shot at whatever hes up to. No, listen to me!" he hissed angrily, as oth Ron and Hermione showed every sign of interrupting. I know it was Malfoy celerating in the Room of Requirement. Here - He shoved the Marauders Map into Hermiones hand. Youve got to watch him and youve got to watch Snape, too. Use anyone else who you can rustle up from the DA. Hermione, those contact Galleons will still work, right? Dumledore says hes put extra protection in the school, ut if Snapes involved, hell know what Dumledores protection is, and how to avoid it - ut he wont e expecting you lot to e on the watch, will he?
Harry - egan Hermione, her eyes huge with fear.
 ? havent got time to argue, said Harry curtly. Take this as well - He thrust the socks into Rons hands.
‘Thanks, said Ron. Er - why do I need socks?
You need whats wrapped in them, its the Felix Felicis. Share it etween yourselves and Ginny too. Say goodye to her from me. Id etter go, Dumledores waiting -
No! said Hermione, as Ron unwrapped the tiny little ottle of golden potion, looking awestruck. We dont want it, you take it, who knows what youre going to e facing?
IIl e fine, Ill e with Dumledore, said Harry. I want to know you lot are OK ... dont look like that, Hermione, Ill see you later
And he was off, hurrying ack through the portrait hole towards the Entrance Hall.
Dumledore was waiting eside the oaken front doors. He turned as Harry came skidding out on to the topmost stone step, panting hard, a searing stitch in his side.
I would like you to wear your Cloak, please, said Dumledore, and he waited until Harry had thrown it on efore saying, Very good. Shall we go?
Dumledore set off at once down the stone steps, his own travelling cloak arely stirring in the still summer air. Harry hurried alongside him under the Invisiility Cloak, still pant-ing and sweating rather a lot.
But what will people think when they see you leaving, Professor? Harry asked, his mind on Malfoy and Snape.
That I am off into Hogsmeade for a drink, said Dumledore lightly. I sometimes offer Rosmerta my custom, or else visit the Hogs Head ... or I appear to. It is as good a way as any of disguising ones true destination.
They made their way down the drive in the gathering twi-light. The air was full of the smells of warm grass, lake water and wood smoke from
Hagrids cain. It was difficult to elieve that they were heading for anything dangerous or frightening.
Professor, said Harry quietly, as the gates at the ottom of the drive came into view, will we e Apparating?
Yes, said Dumledore. You can Apparate now, I elieve?
Yes, said Harry, ut I havent got a licence.
He felt it est to e honest; what if he spoiled everything y turning up a hundred miles from where he was supposed to go?
No matter, said Dumledore, I can assist you again.
They turned out of the gates into the twilit, deserted lane to Hogsmeade. Darkness descended fast as they walked and y the time they reached the High Street night was falling in earnest. Lights twinkled from windows over shops and as they neared the Three Broomsticks they heard raucous shouting.
- and stay out! shouted Madam Rosmerta, forcily ejecting a gruy-looking wizard. Oh, hello, Alus ... youre out late ...
Good evening, Rosmerta, good evening ... forgive me, Im off to the Hogs Head ... no offence, ut I feel like a quieter atmosphere tonight...
A minute later they turned the corner into the side street where the Hogs Heads sign creaked a little, though there was no reeze. In contrast to the Three Broomsticks, the pu appeared to e completely empty.
It will not e necessary for us to enter, muttered Dumledore, glancing around. As long as noody sees us go ... now place your hand upon my arm, Harry. There is no need to grip too hard, I am merely guiding you. On the count of three - one ... two ... three ...
Harry turned. At once, there was that horrile sensation that he was eing squeezed through a thick ruer tue; he could not draw reath, every part of him was eing com-pressed almost past endurance and then, just when he thought he must suffocate, the invisile ands seemed to urst open, and he was standing in cool darkness, reathing in lungfuls of fresh, salty air.
Chapter 26: The Cave
Harry could smell salt and hear rushing waves; a light, chilly reeze ruffled his hair as he looked out at moon-lit sea and star-strewn sky. He was standing upon a high outcrop of dark rock, water foaming and churning elow him. He glanced over his shoulder. A towering cliff stood ehind them, a sheer drop, lack and faceless. A few large chunks of rock, such as the one upon which Harry and Dumledore were standing, looked as though they had roken away from the cliff face at some point in the past. It was a leak, harsh view, the sea and the rock unrelieved y any tree or sweep of grass or sand.
"What do you think?" asked Dumledore. He might have een asking Harrys opinion on whether it was a good site for a picnic.
"They rought the kids from the orphanage here?" asked Harry, who could not imagine a less cozy spot for a day trip.
"Not here, precisely," said Dumledore. "There is a village of sorts aout halfway along the cliffs ehind us. I elieve the orphans were taken there for a little sea air and a view of the waves. No, I think it was only ever Tom Riddle and his youthful victims who visited this spot. No Muggle could reach this rock unless they were uncommonly good mountaineers, and oats cannot approach the cliffs, the waters around them are too dangerous. I imagine that Riddle climed down; magic would have served etter than ropes. And he rought two small children with him, proaly for the
pleasure of terrorizing them. I think the journey alone would have done it, dont you?"
Harry looked up at the cliff again and felt goose umps.
"But his final destination -- and ours -- lies a little farther on. Come."
Dumledore eckoned Harry to the very edge of the rock where a series of jagged niches made footholds leading down to oulders that lay half-sumerged in water and closer to the cliff. It was a treacherous descent and Dumledore, hampered slightly y his withered hand, moved slowly. The lower rocks were slippery with seawater. Harry could feel flecks of cold salt spray hitting his face. "Lumos," said Dumledore, as he reached the oulder closest to the cliff face. A thousand flecks of golden light sparkled upon the dark surface of the water a few feet elow where he crouched; the lack wall of rock eside him was illuminated too. "You see?" said Dumledore quietly, holding his wand a little higher. Harry saw a fissure in the cliff into which dark water was swirling. "You will not oject to getting a little wet?"
"No," said Harry.
"Then take off your Invisiility Cloak -- there is no need for it now -- and let us take the plunge," And with the sudden agility of a much younger man, Dumle-dore slid from the oulder, landed in the sea, and egan to swim, with a perfect reaststroke, toward the dark slit in the rock face, his lit wand held in his teeth. Harry pulled off his cloak, stuffed it into his pocket, and followed. The water was icy; Harrys waterlogged clothes illowed
around him and weighed him down. Taking deep reaths that filled his nostrils with the tang of salt and seaweed, he struck out for the shimmering, shrinking light now moving deeper into the cliff. The fissure soon opened into a dark tunnel that Harry could tell would e filled with water at high tide. The slimy walls were arely three feet apart and glimmered like wet tar in the passing light of Dumledores wand. A little way in, the passageway curved to the left, and Harry saw that it extended far into the cliff. He continued to swim in Dumledores wake, the tips of his enumed fingers rushing the rough, wet rock.
Then he saw Dumledore rising out of the water ahead, his sil-ver hair and dark roes gleaming. When Harry reached the spot he found steps that led into a large cave. He clamered up them, water streaming from his soaking clothes, and emerged, shivering uncontrollaly, into the still and freezing air.
Dumledore was standing in the middle of the cave, his wand held high as he turned slowly on the spot, examining the walls and ceiling.
"Yes, this is the place," said Dumledore.
"How can you tell?" Harry spoke in a whisper.
"It has known magic," said Dumledore simply. Harry could not tell whether the shivers he was experiencing were due to his spine-deep coldness or to the same awareness of
enchantments. He watched as Dumledore continued to revolve on the spot, evidently concentrating on things Harry could not see. "This is merely the antechamer, the entrance hall," said Dumledore after a moment or two. "We need to penetrate the inner place. . . . Now it is Lord Voldemorts ostacles that stand in our way, rather than those nature made. . . ."
Dumledore approached the wall of the cave and caressed it with his lackened fingertips, murmuring words in a strange tongue that Harry did not understand. Twice Dumledore walked right around the cave, touching as much of the rough rock as he could, occasionally pausing, running his fingers ackward and for-ward over a particular spot, until finally he stopped, his hand pressed flat against the wall. "Here," he said. "We go on through here. The entrance is con-cealed." Harry did not ask how Dumledore knew. He had never seen a wizard work things out like this, simply y looking and touching; ut Harry had long since learned that angs and smoke were more often the marks of ineptitude than expertise. Dumledore stepped ack from the cave wall and pointed his wand at the rock. For a moment, an arched outline appeared there, lazing white as though there was a powerful light ehind the crack.
"Youve d-done it!" said Harry through chattering teeth, ut efore the words had left his lips the outline had gone, leaving the rock as are and solid as ever. Dumledore looked around.
"Harry, Im so sorry, I forgot," he said; he now pointed his wand at Harry and at once, Harrys clothes were as warm and dry as if they had een hanging in front of a lazing fire.
"Thank you," said Harry gratefully, ut Dumledore had al-ready turned his attention ack to the solid cave wall. He did not try any more magic, ut simply stood there staring at it intently, as though something extremely interesting was written on it. Harry stayed quite still; he did not want to reak Dumledores concen-tration. Then, after two solid minutes, Dumledore said quietly, "Oh, surely not. So crude."
"What is it, Professor?"
"I rather think," said Dumledore, putting his uninjured hand inside his roes and drawing out a short silver knife of the kind Harry used to chop potion ingredients, "that we are required to make payment to pass."
"Payment?" said Harry. "Youve got to give the door something?"
"Yes," said Dumledore. "Blood, if I am not much mistaken."
"Blood?"
"I said it was crude," said Dumledore, who sounded disdainful, even disappointed, as though Voldemort had fallen short of higher standards Dumledore expected. "The idea, as I am sure you will have gathered, is that your enemy must weaken him- or herself to enter. Once again, Lord Voldemort fails to grasp that there are much more terrile things than physical injury."
"Yeah, ut still, if you can avoid it . . ." said Harry, who had ex-perienced enough pain not to e keen for more.
"Sometimes, however, it is unavoidale," said Dumledore, shaking ack the sleeve of his roes and exposing the forearm of his injured hand.
"Professor!" protested Harry, hurrying forward as Dumledore raised his knife. "Ill do it, Im --" He did not know what he was going to say -- younger, fitter?
But Dumledore merely smiled. There was a flash of silver, and a spurt of scarlet; the rock face was peppered with dark, glistening drops.
"You are very kind, Harry," said Dumledore, now passing the tip of his wand over the deep cut he had made in his own arm, so that it healed instantly, just as Snape had healed Malfoys wound, "But your lood is worth more than mine. Ah, that seems to have done the trick, doesnt it?" The lazing silver outline of an arch had appeared in the wall once more, and this time it did not fade away: The lood-spattered rock within it simply vanished, leaving an opening into what seemed total darkness. "After me, I think," said Dumledore, and he walked through the archway with Harry on his heels, lighting his own wand hastily as he went.
An eerie sight met their eyes: They were standing on the edge of a great lack lake, so vast that Harry could not make out the distant anks, in a cavern so high that the ceiling too was out of sight. A misty greenish light shone far away in what looked like the mid-dle of the lake; it was reflected
in the completely still water elow. The greenish glow and the light from the two wands were the only things that roke the otherwise velvety lackness, though their rays did not penetrate as far as Harry would have expected. The dark-ness was somehow denser than normal darkness.
"Let us walk," said Dumledore quietly. "Be very careful not to step into the water. Stay close to me." He set off around the edge of the lake, and Harry followed close ehind him. Their footsteps made echoing, slapping sounds on the narrow rim of rock that surrounded the water. On and on they walked, ut the view did not vary: on one side of them, the rough cavern wall, on the other, the oundless expanse of smooth, glassy lackness, in the very middle of which was that mysterious greenish glow. Harry found the place and the silence oppressive, unnerving.
"Professor?" he said finally. "Do you think the Horcrux is here?"
"Oh yes," said Dumledore. "Yes, Im sure it is. The question is, how do we get to it?"
"We couldnt... we couldnt just try a Summoning Charm?" Harry said, sure that it was a stupid suggestion. But he was much keener than he was prepared to admit on getting out of this place as soon as possile.
"Certainly we could," said Dumledore, stopping so suddenly that Harry almost walked into him. "Why dont you do it?"
"Me? Oh . . . okay . . ." Harry had not expected this, ut cleared his throat and said loudly, wand aloft, "Accio Horcrux!"
With a noise like an explosion, something very large and pale erupted out of the dark water some twenty feet away; efore Harry could see what it was, it had vanished again with a crashing splash that made great, deep ripples on the mirrored surface. Harry leapt ackward in shock and hit the wall; his heart was still thundering as he turned to Dumledore.
"What was that?"
"Something, I think, that is ready to respond should we attempt to seize the Horcrux."
Harry looked ack at the water. The surface of the lake was once more shining lack glass: The ripples had vanished unnaturally fast; Harrys heart, however, was still pounding.
"Did you think that would happen, sir?"
"I thought something would happen if we made an ovious at-tempt to get our hands on the Horcrux. That was a very good idea, Harry; much the simplest way of finding out what we are facing."
"But we dont know what the thing was," said Harry, looking at the sinisterly smooth water.
"What the things are, you mean," said Dumledore. "I dout very much that there is only one of them. Shall we walk on?"
"Professor?"
"Yes, Harry?"
"Do you think were going to have to go into the lake?"
"Into it? Only if we are very unfortunate."
"You dont think the Horcrux is at the ottom?"
"Oh no ... I think the Horcrux is in the middle." And Dumledore pointed toward the misty green light in the center of the lake.
"So were going to have to cross the lake to get to it?"
"Yes, I think so." Harry did not say anything. His thoughts were all of water mon-sters, of giant serpents, of demons, kelpies, and sprites. . . .
"Aha," said Dumledore, and he stopped again; this time, Harry really did walk into him; for a moment he toppled on the edge of the dark water, and Dumledores uninjured hand closed tightly around his upper arm, pulling him ack. "So sorry, Harry, I should have given warning. Stand ack against the wall, please; I think I have found the place."
Harry had no idea what Dumledore meant; this patch of dark ank was exactly like every other it as far as he could tell, ut Dumledore seemed to have detected something special aout it. This time he was running his hand, not over the rocky wall, ut t hrough the thin air, as though expecting to find and grip some-thing invisile.
"Oho," said Dumledore happily, seconds later. His hand had closed in midair upon something Harry could not see. Dumle-dore moved closer to the water; Harry watched nervously as the tips of Dumledores uckled shoes found the utmost edge of the rock rim. Keeping his hand clenched in midair, Dumledore raised his wand with the other and tapped his fist with the point.
Immediately a thick coppery green chain appeared out of thin air, extending from the depths of the water into Dumledores clenched hand. Dumledore tapped the chain, which egan to slide through his fist like a snake, coiling itself on the ground with a clinking sound that echoed noisily off the rocky walls, pulling something from the depths of the lack water. Harry gasped as the ghostly prow of a tiny oat roke the surface, glowing as green as the chain, and floated, with arely a ripple, toward the place on the ank where Harry and Dumledore stood.
"How did you know that was there?" Harry asked in astonish-ment.
"Magic always leaves traces," said Dumledore, as the oat hit the ank with a gentle ump, "sometimes very distinctive traces. I taught Tom Riddle. I know his style."
"Is ... is this oat safe?"
"Oh yes, I think so. Voldemort needed to create a means to cross the lake without attracting the wrath of those creatures he had placed within it in case he ever wanted to visit or remove his Horcrux."
"So the things in the water wont do anything to us if we cross in Voldemorts oat?"
"I think we must resign ourselves to the fact that they will, at some point, realize we are not Lord Voldemort. Thus far, however, we have done well. They have allowed us to raise the oat."
"But why have they let us?" asked Harry, who could not shake off the vision of tentacles rising out of the dark water the moment they were out of sight of the ank.
"Voldemort would have een reasonaly confident that none ut a very great wizard would have een ale to find the oat," said Dumledore. "I think he would have een prepared to risk what was, to his mind, the most unlikely possiility that someody else would find it, knowing that he had set other ostacles ahead that only he would e ale to penetrate. We shall see whether he was right."
Harry looked down into the oat. It really was very small. "It doesnt look like it was uilt for two people. Will it hold oth of us? Will we e too heavy together?"
Dumledore chuckled. "Voldemort will not have cared aout the weight, ut aout the amount of magical power that crossed his lake. I rather think an enchantment will have een placed upon this oat so that only one wizard at a time will e ale to sail in it."
"But then -- ?"
"I do not think you will count, Harry: You are underage and un-qualified. Voldemort would never have expected a sixteen-year-old to reach this place: I think it unlikely that your powers will register compared to mine." These words did nothing to raise Harrys morale; perhaps Dumledore knew it, for he added, "Voldemorts mistake, Harry, Voldemorts mistake. . . Age is foolish and forgetful when it underestimates youth. . . . Now, you first this time, and e careful not to touch the water." Dumledore stood aside and Harry climed carefully into the oat. Dumledore stepped in too, coiling the chain onto the floor. They were crammed in together; Harry could not comfortaly sit, ut crouched, his knees jutting over the edge of the oat, which e-gan to move at once. There was no sound other than the silken rus-tle of the oats prow cleaving the water; it moved without their help, as though an invisile rope was pulling it onward toward the light in the center. Soon they could no longer see the walls of the cavern; they might have een at sea except that there were no waves.
Harry looked down and saw the reflected gold of his wandlight sparkling and glittering on the lack water as they passed. The oat was carving deep ripples upon the glassy surface, grooves in the dark mirror. . . .
And then Harry saw it, marle white, floating inches elow the surface. "Professor!" he said, and his startled voice echoed loudly over the silent water.
"Harry?"
"I think I saw a hand in the water -- a human hand!"
"Yes, I am sure you did," said Dumledore calmly.
Harry stared down into the water, looking for the vanished hand, and a sick feeling rose in his throat.
"So that thing that jumped out of the water -- ?" But Harry had his answer efore Dumledore could reply; the wandlight had slid over a fresh patch of water and showed him, this time, a dead man lying faceup inches eneath the surface, his open eyes misted as though with cowes, his hair and his roes swirling around him like smoke. "There are odies in here!" said Harry, and his voice sounded much higher than usual and most unlike his own.
"Yes," said Dumledore placidly, "ut we do not need to worry aout them at the moment."
"At the moment?" Harry repeated, tearing his gaze from the water to look at Dumledore.
"Not while they are merely drifting peacefully elow us," said Dumledore. "There is nothing to e feared from a ody, Harry, any more than there is anything to e feared from the darkness. Lord Voldemort, who of course secretly fears oth, disagrees. But once again he reveals his own lack of wisdom. It is the unknown we fear when we look upon death and darkness, nothing more." Harry said nothing; he did not want to argue, ut he found the idea that there were odies floating around them and eneath them horrile and, what was more, he did not elieve that they were not dangerous.
"But one of them jumped," he said, trying to make his voice as level and calm as Dumledores. "When I tried to Summon the Horcrux, a ody leapt out of the lake."
"Yes," said Dumledore. "I am sure that once we take the Horcrux, we shall find them less peaceale. However, like many creatures that dwell in cold and darkness, they fear light and warmth, which we shall therefore call to our aid should the need arise. Fire, Harry," Dumledore added with a smile, in response to Harrys ewildered expression.
"Oh . . . right. . ." said Harry quickly. He turned his head to look at the greenish glow toward which the oat was still inexoraly sailing. He could not pretend now that he was not scared. The great lack lake, teeming with
the dead ... It seemed hours and hours ago that he had met Professor Trelawney, that he had given Ron and Hermione Felix Felicis. . . . He suddenly wished he had said a etter good-ye to them . . . and he hadnt seen Ginny at all. . .
"Nearly there," said Dumledore cheerfully. Sure enough, the greenish light seemed to e growing larger at last, and within minutes, the oat had come to a halt, umping gently into something that Harry could not see at first, ut when he raised his illuminated wand he saw that they had reached a small island of smooth rock in the center of the lake. "Careful not to touch the water," said Dumledore again as Harry climed out of the oat.
The island was no larger than Dumledores office, an expanse of flat dark stone on which stood nothing ut the source of that greenish light, which looked much righter when viewed close to. Harry squinted at it; at first, he thought it was a lamp of some kind, ut then he saw that the light was coming from a stone asin rather like the Pensieve, which was set on top of a pedestal. Dumledore approached the asin and Harry followed. Side y side, they looked down into it. The asin was full of an emerald liq-uid emitting that phosphorescent glow.
"What is it?" asked Harry quietly.
"I am not sure," said Dumledore. "Something more worrisome than lood and odies, however." Dumledore pushed ack the sleeve of his roe over his lack-ened hand, and stretched out the tips of his urned fingers toward the surface of the potion.
"Sir, no, dont touch -- !"
"I cannot touch," said Dumledore, smiling faintly. "See? I cannot approach any nearer than this. You try."
Staring, Harry put his hand into the asin and attempted to touch the potion. He met an invisile arrier that prevented him coming within an inch of it. No matter how hard he pushed, his fingers encountered nothing ut what seemed to e solid and flexile air.
"Out of the way, please, Harry," said Dumledore. He raised his wand and made complicated movements over the surface of the-potion, murmuring soundlessly. Nothing happened, except per haps that the potion glowed a little righter. Harry remained silent while Dumledore worked, ut after a while Dumledore with-drew his wand, and Harry felt it was safe to talk again.
"You think the Horcrux is in there, sir?"
"Oh yes." Dumledore peered more closely into the asin. Harry saw his face reflected, upside down, in the smooth surface of the green potion. "But how to reach it? This potion cannot e pen-etrated y hand, Vanished, parted, scooped up, or siphoned away, nor can it e Transfigured, Charmed, or otherwise made to change its nature." Almost asentmindedly, Dumledore raised his wand again, twirled it once in midair, and then
caught the crystal golet that he had conjured out of nowhere. "I can only conclude that this potion is supposed to e drunk."
"What?" said Harry. "No!"
"Yes, I think so: Only y drinking it can I empty the asin and see what lies in its depths."
"But what if-- what if it kills you?"
"Oh, I dout that it would work like that," said Dumledore easily. "Lord Voldemort would not want to kill the person who reached this island." Harry couldnt elieve it. Was this more of Dumledores insane determination to see good in everyone?
"Sir," said Harry, trying to keep his voice reasonale, "sir, this is Voldemort were --"
"Im sorry, Harry; I should have said, he would not want to im-mediately kill the person who reached this island," Dumledore corrected himself. "He would want to keep them alive long enough to find out how they managed to penetrate so far through his de-fenses and, most importantly of all, why they were so intent upon emptying the asin. Do not forget that Lord Voldemort elieves that he alone knows aout his Horcruxes."
Harry made to speak again, ut this time Dumledore raised his hand for silence, frowning slightly at the emerald liquid, evidently thinking hard.
"Undoutedly," he said, finally, "this potion must act in a way that will prevent me taking the Horcrux. It might paralyze me, cause me to forget what I am here for, create so much pain I am dis-tracted, or render me incapale in some other way. This eing the case, Harry, it will e your jo to make sure I keep drinking, even if you have to tip the potion into my protesting mouth. You understand?"
Their eyes met over the asin, each pale face lit with that strange, green light. Harry did not speak. Was this why he had een invited along -- so that he could force-feed Dumledore a potion that might cause him unendurale pain?
"You rememer," said Dumledore, "the condition on which I rought you with me?"
Harry hesitated, looking into the lue eyes that had turned green in the reflected light of the asin.
"But what if--?"
"You swore, did you not, to follow any command I gave you?"
"Yes, ut--"
"I warned you, did I not, that there might e danger?"
"Yes," said Harry, "ut --"
"Well, then," said Dumledore, shaking ack his sleeves once more and raising the empty golet, "you have my orders."
"Why cant I drink the potion instead?" asked Harry desperately.
"Because I am much older, much cleverer, and much less valuale," said Dumledore. "Once and for all, Harry, do I have your word that you will do all in your power to make me keep drinking?"
"Couldnt -- ?"
"Do I have it?"
"But--"
"Your word, Harry."
"I --all right, ut--"
Before Harry could make any further protest, Dumledore low-ered the crystal golet into the potion. For a split second, Harry hoped that he would not e ale to touch the potion with the go-let, ut the crystal sank into the surface as nothing else had; when the glass was full to the rim, Dumledore lifted it to his mouth. "Your good health, Harry."
And he drained the golet. Harry watched, terrified, his hands gripping the rim of the asin so hard that his fingertips were num.
"Professor?" he said anxiously, as Dumledore lowered the empty glass. "How do you feel?"
Dumledore shook his head, his eyes closed. Harry wondered whether he was in pain. Dumledore plunged the glass lindly ack into the asin, refilled it, and drank once more.
In silence, Dumledore drank three goletsful of the potion. Then, halfway through the fourth golet, he staggered and fell for-ward against the asin. His eyes were still closed, his reathing heavy.
"Professor Dumledore?" said Harry, his voice strained. "Can you hear me?"
Dumledore did not answer. His face was twitching as though he was deeply asleep, ut dreaming a horrile dream. His grip on the golet was slackening; the potion was aout to spill from it. Harry reached forward and grasped the crystal cup, holding it steady. "Professor, can you hear me?" he repeated loudly, his voice echo-ing around the cavern.
Dumledore panted and then spoke in a voice Harry did not recognize, for he had never heard Dumledore frightened like this.
"I dont want. . . Dont make me ..."
Harry stared into the whitened face he knew so well, at the crooked nose and half-moon spectacles, and did not know what to do.
". . . dont like . . . want to stop . . ." moaned Dumledore.
"You . . . you cant stop, Professor," said Harry. "Youve got to keep drinking, rememer? You told me you had to keep drinking. Here . . ." Hating himself, repulsed y what he was doing, Harry forced the golet ack toward Dumledores mouth and tipped it, so that Dumledore drank the remainder of the potion inside.
"No ..." he groaned, as Harry lowered the golet ack into the asin and refilled it for him. "I dont want to. ... I dont want to. . . . Let me go. . . ."
"Its all right, Professor," said Harry, his hand shaking. "Its all right, Im here --"
"Make it stop, make it stop," moaned Dumledore.
"Yes.. . yes, thisll make it stop," lied Harry. He tipped the con-tents of the golet into Dumledores open mouth. Dumledore screamed; the noise echoed all around the vast chamer, across the dead lack water.
"No, no, no, no, I cant, I cant, dont make me, I dont warn to. . . ."
"Its all right, Professor, its all right!" said Harry loudly, his hands shaking so adly he could hardly scoop up the sixth golei ful of potion; the asin was now half empty. "Nothings happening to you, youre safe, it isnt real, I swear it isnt real -- take this, now, take this..." And oediently, Dumledore drank, as though it was an anti-dote Harry offered him, ut upon draining the golet, he sank to his knees, shaking uncontrollaly.
"Its all my fault, all my fault," he soed. "Please make it stop, I know I did wrong, oh please make it stop and Ill never, never again ..."
"This will make it stop, Professor," Harry said, his voice crack-ing as he tipped the seventh glass of potion into Dumledores mouth.
Dumledore egan to cower as though invisile torturers sur-rounded him; his flailing hand almost knocked the refilled golet from Harrys tremling hands as he moaned, "Dont hurt them, dont hurt them, please, please, its my fault, hurt me instead ..."
"Here, drink this, drink this, youll e all right," said Harry des-perately, and once again Dumledore oeyed him, opening his mouth even as he kept his eyes tight shut and shook from head to foot. And now he fell forward, screaming again, hammering his fists upon the ground, while Harry filled the ninth golet.
"Please, please, please, no ... not that, not that, Ill do any-thing ..."
"Just drink, Professor, just drink . . ."
Dumledore drank like a child dying of thirst, ut when he had finished, he yelled again as though his insides were on fire. "No more, please, no more ..."
Harry scooped up a tenth goletful of potion and felt the crystal scrape the ottom of the asin. "Were nearly there, Professor. Drink this, drink it. ..."
He supported Dumledores shoulders and again, Dumledore drained the glass; then Harry was on his feet once more, refilling the golet as Dumledore egan to scream in more anguish than ever, "I want to die! I want to die! Make it stop, make it stop, I want to die!"
"Drink this, Professor. Drink this. . . ."
Dumledore drank, and no sooner had he finished than he yelled, "KILL ME!"
"This -- this one will!" gasped Harry. "Just drink this .. . Itll e over ... all over!" Dumledore gulped at the golet, drained every last drop, and then, with a great, rattling gasp, rolled over onto his face.
"No!" shouted Harry, who had stood to refill the golet again; instead he dropped the cup into the asin, flung himself down eside Dumledore, and heaved him over onto his ack; Dumledores glasses were askew, his mouth agape, his eyes closed. "No." said Harry, shaking Dumledore, "no, youre not dead, you said it wasnt poison, wake up, wake up -- Rennervate!" he
cried, his wand pointing at Dumledores chest; there was a flash of red light ut nothing happened. "Rennervate -- sir -- please --"
Dumledores eyelids flickered; Harrys heart leapt, "Sir, are you -- ?"
"Water," croaked Dumledore.
"Water," panted Harry. "Yes --" He leapt to his feet and seized the golet he had dropped in the asin; he arely registered the golden locket lying curled eneath it.
"Aguamenti!" he shouted, jaing the golet with his wand. The golet filled with clear water; Harry dropped to his knees eside Dumledore, raised his head, and rought the glass to his lips -- ut it was empty. Dumledore groaned and egan to pant. "But I had some -- wait -- Aguamenti!" said Harry again, pointing his wand at the golet. Once more, for a second, clear wa-ter gleamed within it, ut as he approached Dumledores mouth, the water vanished again. "Sir, Im trying, Im trying!" said Harry desperately, ut he did not think that Dumledore could hear him; he had rolled onto his side and was drawing great, rattling reaths that sounded agoniz-ing. "Aguamenti --Aguamenti --AGUAMENTI!"
The golet filled and emptied once more. And now Dumle-dores reathing was fading. His rain whirling in panic, Harry knew, instinctively, the only way left to get water, ecause Voldemort had planned it so ... He flung himself over to the edge of the rock and plunged the golet into the lake, ringing it up full to the rim of icy water that did not vanish. "Sir --
here!" Harry yelled, and lunging forward, he tipped the water clumsily over Dumledores face.
It was the est he could do, for the icy feeling on his arm not holding the cup was not the lingering chill of the water. A slimy white hand had gripped his wrist, and the creature to whom it e-longed was pulling him, slowly, ackward across the rock. The sur-face of the lake was no longer mirror-smooth; it was churning, and everywhere Harry looked, white heads and hands were emerging from the dark water, men and women and children with sunken, sightless eyes were moving toward the rock: an army of the dead rising from the lack water.
"Petrificus Totalus!" yelled Harry, struggling to cling to the smooth, soaked surface of the island as he pointed his wand at the Inferius that had his arm. It released him, falling ackward into the water with a splash; he scramled to his feet, ut many more Inferi were already climing onto the rock, their ony hands clawing at its slippery surface, their lank, frosted eyes upon him, trailing waterlogged rags, sunken faces leering.
"Petrificus Totalus!" Harry ellowed again, acking away as he swiped his wand through the air; six or seven of them crumpled, ut more were coming toward him. "Impedimenta! Incarcerous!" A few of them stumled, one or two of them ound in ropes, ut those climing onto the rock ehind them merely stepped over or on the fallen odies. Still slashing at the air with his wand, Harry yelled, "Sectumsempra! SECTUMSEMPRA!" But though gashes appeared in their sodden rags and their icy skin, they had no lood to spill: They walked on, unfeeling, their shrunken hands outstretched
toward him, and as he acked away still farther, he felt arms enclose him from ehind, thin, fleshlcv. arms cold as death, and his feet left the ground as they lifted him and egan to carry him, slowly and surely, ack to the water, anil he knew there would e no release, that he would e drowned, and ecome one more dead guardian of a fragment of Voldemorts shattered soul...
But then, through the darkness, fire erupted: crimson and gold, a ring of fire that surrounded the rock so that the Inferi holding Harry so tightly stumled and faltered; they did not dare pass through the flames to get to the water. They dropped Harry; he hit the ground, slipped on the rock, and fell, grazing his arms, then scramled ack up, raising his wand and staring around.
Dumledore was on his feet again, pale as any of the surround-ing Inferi, ut taller than any too, the fire dancing in his eyes; his wand was raised like a torch and from its tip emanated the flames, like a vast lasso, encircling them all with warmth. The Inferi umped into each other, attempting, lindly, to es-cape the fire in which they were enclosed. . . .
Dumledore scooped the locket from the ottom of the stone asin and stowed it inside his roes. Wordlessly, he gestured to Harry to come to his side. Distracted y the flames, the Inferi seemed unaware that their quarry was leaving as Dumledore led Harry ack to the oat, the ring of fire moving with them, around them, the ewildered Inferi accompanying them to the waters edge, where they slipped gratefully ack into their dark waters.
Harry, who was shaking all over, thought for a moment that Dumledore might not e ale to clim into the oat; he staggered a little as he attempted it; all his efforts seemed to e going into maintaining the ring of protective flame around them. Harry seized him and helped him ack to his seat. Once they were oth safely jammed inside again, the oat egan to move ack across the lack water, away from the rock, still encircled y that ring of fire, and it seemed that the Inferi swarming elow them did not dare resurface.
"Sir," panted Harry, "sir, I forgot -- aout fire -- they were coming at me and I panicked --"
"Quite understandale," murmured Dumledore. Harry was alarmed to hear how faint his voice was.
They reached the ank with a little ump and Harry leapt out, then turned quickly to help Dumledore. The moment that Dum-ledore reached the ank he let his wand hand fall; the ring of fire vanished, ut the Inferi did not emerge again from the water. The little oat sank into the water once more; clanking and tinkling, its chain slithered ack into the lake too. Dumledore gave a great sigh and leaned against the cavern wall.
"I am weak..." he said.
"Dont worry, sir," said Harry at once, anxious aout Dumledores extreme pallor and y his air of exhaustion. "Dont worry, Ill get us ack. . . . Lean on me, sir. . . ."
And pulling Dumledores uninjured arm around his shoulders, Harry guided his headmaster ack around the lake, earing most of his weight.
"The protection was . . . after all... well-designed," said Dum-ledore faintly. "One alone could not have done it. ... You did well, very well, Harry. ..."
"Dont talk now," said Harry, fearing how slurred Dumledores voice had ecome, how much his feet dragged. "Save your energy, sir. . . . Well soon e out of here. . . ."
"The archway will have sealed again. . . . My knife ..." 
"Theres no need, I got cut on the rock," said Harry firmly. "Just tell me where. . . ."
"Here . . ."
Harry wiped his grazed forearm upon the stone: Having re-ceived its triute of lood, the archway reopened instantly. They crossed the outer cave, and Harry helped Dumledore ack into the icy seawater that filled the crevice in the cliff.
"Its going to e all right, sir," Harry said over and over again, more worried y Dumledores silence than he had een y his weakened voice. "Were nearly there. ... I can Apparate us oth ack . . . Dont worry. . . ."
"I am not worried, Harry," said Dumledore, his voice a little stronger despite the freezing water. "I am with you."
Chapter 27: The Lightning-Struck Tower
Once ack under the starry sky, Harry heaved Dumledore on to the top of the nearest oulder and then to his feet. Sodden and shivering, Dumledores weight still upon him, Harry con- centrated harder than he had ever done upon his destination: Hogsmeade. Closing his eyes, gripping Dumledores arm as tightly as he could, he stepped forwards into that feeling of horrile compression.
He knew it had worked efore he opened his eyes: the smell of salt, the sea reeze had gone. He and Dumledore were shivering and dripping in the middle of the dark High Street in Hogsmeade. For one horrile moment Harrys imagination showed him more Inferi creeping towards him around the sides of shops, ut he linked and saw that noth-ing was stirring; all was still, the darkness complete ut for a few streetlamps and lit upper windows.
We did it, Professor! Harry whispered with difficulty; he suddenly realised that he had a searing stitch in his chest. We did it! We got the Horcrux!
Dumledore staggered against him. For a moment, Harry thought that his inexpert Apparition had thrown Dumledore off-alance; then he saw his face, paler and damper than ever in the distant light of a streetlamp.
Sir, are you all right?
Ive een etter, said Dumledore weakly, though the corners of his mouth twitched. That potion ... was no health drink ..."
And to Harrys horror, Dumledore sank on to the ground.
Sir - its OK, sir, youre going to e all right, dont worry -
He looked around desperately for help, ut there was noody to e seen and all he could think was that he must somehow get Dumledore quickly to the hospital wing.
We need to get you up to the school, sir ... Madam Pomfrey ...
No, said Dumledore. It is ... Professor Snape whom I need ... ut I do not think ... I can walk very far just yet ...
Right - sir, listen - Im going to knock on a door, find a place you can stay - then I can run and get Madam -
Severus, said Dumledore clearly. I need Severus ...
All right then, Snape - ut Im going to have to leave you for a moment so I can -
Before Harry could make a move, however, he heard run- ning footsteps. His heart leapt: someody had seen, someody knew they needed help - and looking around he saw Madam Rosmerta scurrying down the dark street
towards them on high-heeled, fluffy slippers, wearing a silk dressing-gown emroidered with dragons.
I saw you Apparate as I was pulling my edroom curtains! Thank goodness, thank goodness, I couldnt think what to - ut whats wrong with Alus?
She came to a halt, panting, and stared down, wide-eyed, at Dumledore.
Hes hurt, said Harry. Madam Rosmerta, can he come into the Three Broomsticks while I go up to the school and get help for him?
You cant go up there alone! Dont you realise - havent you seen -?
If you help me support him, said Harry, not listening to her, I think we can get him inside -
What has happened? asked Dumledore. Rosmerta, whats wrong?
The - the Dark Mark, Alus.
And she pointed into the sky, in the direction of Hogwarts. Dread flooded Harry at the sound of the words ... he turned and looked.
There it was, hanging in the sky aove the school: the laz- ing green skull with a serpent tongue, the mark Death Eaters left ehind whenever they had entered a uilding ... wherever they had murdered ...
When did it appear? asked Dumledore, and his hand clenched painfully upon Harrys shoulder as he struggled to his feet.
Must have een minutes ago, it wasnt there when I put the cat out, ut when I got upstairs -
We need to return to the castle at once, said Dumledore. Rosmerta, and though he staggered a little, he seemed wholly in command of the situation, we need transport - rooms -
Ive got a couple ehind the ar, she said, looking very frightened. Shall I run and fetch -?
No, Harry can do it.
Harry raised his wand at once.
Accio Rosmertas rooms.
A second later they heard a loud ang as the front door of the pu urst open; two rooms had shot out into the street and were racing each other to Harrys side, where they stopped dead, quivering slightly, at waist height.
Rosmerta, please send a message to the Ministry, said Dumledore, as he mounted the room nearest him. It might e that noody within Hogwarts has yet realised anything is wrong ... Harry, put on your Invisiility Cloak.
Harry pulled his Cloak out of his pocket and threw it over himself efore mounting his room; Madam Rosmerta was already tottering ack towards her pu as Harry and Dumle-dore kicked off from the ground and rose up into the air. As they sped towards the castle, Harry glanced sideways at Dumledore, ready to gra him should he fall, ut the sight of the Dark Mark seemed to have acted upon Dumledore like a stimulant: he was ent low over his room, his eyes fixed upon the Mark, his long silver hair and eard flying ehind him in the night air. And Harry, too, looked ahead at the skull, and fear swelled inside him like a venomous ule, compressing his lungs, driving all other discomfort from his mind ...
How long had they een away? Had Ron, Hermione and Ginnys luck run out y now? Was it one of them who had caused the Mark to e set over the school, or was it Neville, or Luna, or some other memer of the DA? And if it was ... he was the one who had told them to patrol the corridors, he had asked them to leave the safety of their eds ... would he e responsile, again, for the death of a friend?
As they flew over the dark, twisting lane down which they had walked earlier, Harry heard, over the whistling of the night air in his ears, Dumledore muttering in some strange language again. He thought he understood why as he felt his room shudder for a moment when they flew over the ound-ary wall into the grounds: Dumledore was undoing the enchantments he himself had set around the castle, so that they could enter at speed. The Dark Mark was glittering directly aove the Astronomy Tower, the highest of the castle. Did that mean the death had occurred there?
Dumledore had already crossed the crenellated ramparts and was dismounting; Harry landed next to him seconds later and looked around.
The ramparts were deserted. The door to the spiral staircase that led ack into the castle was closed. There was no sign of a struggle, of a fight to the death, of a ody.
What does it mean? Harry asked Dumledore, looking up at the green skull with its serpents tongue glinting evilly aove them. Is it the real Mark? Has someone definitely een - Professor?
In the dim green glow from the Mark Harry saw Dumle-dore clutching at his chest with his lackened hand.
Go and wake Severus, said Dumledore faintly ut clearly. Tell him what has happened and ring him to me. Do noth- ing else, speak to noody else and do not remove your Cloak. I shall wait here.
But -
You swore to oey me, Harry - go!
Harry hurried over to the door leading to the spiral stair-case, ut his hand had only just closed upon the iron ring of the door when he heard running footsteps on the other side. He looked round at Dumledore, who gestured to him to retreat. Harry acked away, drawing his wand as he did so.
The door urst open and someody erupted through it and shouted: Expelliarmus!
Harrys ody ecame instantly rigid and immoile, and he felt himself fall ack against the Tower wall, propped like an unsteady statue, unale to move or speak. He could not understand how it had happened - Expelliarmus was not a Freezing Charm -
Then, y the light of the Mark, he saw Dumledores wand flying in an arc over the edge of the ramparts and under-stood ... Dumledore had wordlessly immoilised Harry, and the second he had taken to perform the spell had cost him the chance of defending himself.
Standing against the ramparts, very white in the face, Dumledore still showed no sign of panic or distress. He merely looked across at his disarmer and said, Good evening, Draco.
Malfoy stepped forwards, glancing around quickly to check that he and Dumledore were alone. His eyes fell upon the second room.
Who else is here?
A question 1 might ask you. Or are you acting alone?
Harry saw Malfoys pale eyes shift ack to Dumledore in the greenish glare of the Mark.
No, he said. Ive got ack-up. There are Death Eaters here in your school tonight.
Well, well, said Dumledore, as though Malfoy was show- ing him an amitious homework project. Very good indeed. You found a way to let them in, did you?
Yeah, said Malfoy, who was panting. Right under your nose and you never realised!
Ingenious, said Dumledore. Yet ... forgive me ... where are they now? You seem unsupported.
They met some of your guard. Theyre having a fight down elow. They wont e long ... I came on ahead. I - Ive got a jo to do.
Well, then, you must get on and do it, my dear oy, said Dumledore softly.
There was silence. Harry stood imprisoned within his own invisile, paralysed ody, staring at the two of them, his ears straining to hear sounds of the Death Eaters distant fight, and in front of him, Draco Malfoy did nothing ut stare at Alus Dumledore who, incredily, smiled.
Draco, Draco, you are not a killer.
How do you know? said Malfoy at once.
He seemed to realise how childish the words had sounded; Harry saw him flush in the Marks greenish light.
You dont know what Im capale of, said Malfoy more forcefully, you dont know what Ive done!
Oh, yes, I do, said Dumledore mildly. You almost killed Katie Bell and Ronald Weasley. You have een trying, with increasing desperation, to kill me all year. Forgive me, Draco, ut they have een feele attempts ... so feele, to e honest, that I wonder whether your heart has een really in it...
It has een in it! said Malfoy vehemently. Ive een work- ing on it all year, and tonight -
Somewhere in the depths of the castle elow Harry heard a muffled yell. Malfoy stiffened and glanced over his shoulder.
Someody is putting up a good fight, said Dumledore conversationally. But you were saying ... yes, you have man-aged to introduce Death Eaters into my school which, I admit, I thought impossile ... how did you do it?
But Malfoy said nothing: he was still listening to whatever was happening elow and seemed almost as paralysed as Harry was.
Perhaps you ought to get on with the jo alone, suggested Dumledore. What if your ack-up has een thwarted y my guard? As you have perhaps realised, there are memers of the Order of the Phoenix here tonight, too. And after all, you dont really need help ... I have no wand at the moment ... I cannot defend myself.
Malfoy merely stared at him.
I see, said Dumledore kindly, when Malfoy neither
moved nor spoke. You are afraid to act until they join
you.»
Im not afraid! snarled Malfoy, though he still made no move to hurt Dumledore. Its you who should e scared!
But why? I dont think you will kill me, Draco. Killing is not nearly as easy as the innocent elieve ... so tell me, while we wait for your friends ... how did you smuggle them in here? It seems to have taken you a long time to work out how to do it.
Malfoy looked as though he was fighting down the urge to shout, or to vomit. He gulped and took several deep reaths, glaring at Dumledore, his wand pointing directly at the latters heart. Then, as though he could not help himself, he said, 1 had to mend that roken Vanishing Cainet that no ones used for years. The one Montague got lost in last year.
Aaaah.
Dumledores sigh was half a groan. He closed his eyes for a moment.
That was clever ... there is a pair, I take it?
The others in Borgin and Burkes, said Malfoy, and they make a kind of passage etween them. Montague told me that when he was stuck in the Hogwarts one, he was trapped in limo ut sometimes he could hear what was going on at school, and sometimes what was going on in the shop, as if the Cainet was travelling etween them, ut he couldnt make anyone hear him ... in the end he managed to Apparate out, even though hed never passed his test. He nearly died doing it. Everyone thought it was a really good story, ut I was the only one who realised what it meant - even Borgin didnt know - 1 was the one who realised there could e a way into Hogwarts through the Cainets if I fixed the roken one.
Very good, murmured Dumledore. So the Death Eaters were ale to pass from Borgin and Burkes into the school to help you ... a clever plan, a very clever plan ... and, as you say, right under my nose ...
Yeah, said Malfoy who, izarrely, seemed to draw courage and comfort from Dumledores praise. Yeah, it was!
But there were times, Dumledore went on, werent there, when you were not sure you would succeed in mending the Cainet? And you resorted to crude and adly judged meas-ures such as sending me a cursed necklace
that was ound to reach the wrong hands ... poisoning mead there was only the slightest chance I might drink ...
Yeah, well, you still didnt realise who was ehind that stuff, did you? sneered Malfoy, as Dumledore slid a little down the ramparts, the strength in his legs apparently fading, and Harry struggled fruitlessly, mutely, against the enchantment inding him.
As a matter of fact, I did, said Dumledore. I was sure it was you.
Why didnt you stop me, then? Malfoy demanded.
I tried, Draco. Professor Snape has een keeping watch over you on my orders -
He hasnt een doing your orders, he promised my mother -
Of course that is what he would tell you, Draco, ut -
Hes a doule-agent, you stupid old man, he isnt working for you, you just think he is!
We must agree to differ on that, Draco. It so happens that I trust Professor Snape -
Well, youre losing your grip, then! sneered Malfoy. Hes een offering me plenty of help - wanting all the glory for himself - wanting a it of the
action - "What are you doing? Did you do the necklace, that was stupid, it could have lown everything -" But I havent told him what Ive een doing in the Room of Requirement, hes going to wake up tomorrow and itll all e over and he wont e the Dark Lords favourite any more, hell e nothing compared to me, nothing!
Very gratifying, said Dumledore mildly. We all like* appreciation for our own hard work, of course ... ut you must have had an accomplice, all the same ... someone in Hogsmeade, someone who was ale to slip Katie the - the - aaaah
Dumledore closed his eyes again and nodded, as though he was aout to fall asleep.
... of course ... Rosmerta. How long has she een under the Imperius Curse?
Got there at last, have you? Malfoy taunted.
There was another yell from elow, rather louder than the last. Malfoy looked nervously over his shoulder again, then ack at Dumledore, who went on, So poor Rosmerta was forced to lurk in her own athroom and pass that necklace to any Hogwarts student who entered the room unaccompanied? And the poisoned mead ... well, naturally, Rosmerta was ale to poison it for you efore she sent the ottle to Slughorn, elieving that it was to e my Christmas present ... yes, very neat ... very neat ... poor Mr Filch would not, of course, think to check a ottle of Rosmertas ... tell me,
how have you een communicating with Rosmerta? I thought we had all methods of communication in and out of the school monitored.
Enchanted coins, said Malfoy, as though he was compelled to keep talking, though his wand hand was shaking adly. I had one and she had the other and 1 could send her messages -
Isnt that the secret method of communication the group that called themselves Dumledores Army used last year? asked Dumledore. His voice was light and conversational, ut Harry saw him slip an inch lower down the wall as he said it.
Yeah, I got the idea from them, said Malfoy, with a twisted smile. I got the idea of poisoning the mead from the Mudlood Granger, as well, I heard her talking in the lirary aout Filch not recognising potions ...
Hogsmeade, someone who was ale to slip Katie the - the - aaaah
Dumledore closed his eyes again and nodded, as though he was aout to fall asleep.
... of course ... Rosmerta. How long has she een under the Imperius Curse?
Got there at last, have you? Malfoy taunted.
There was another yell from elow, rather louder than the last. Malfoy looked nervously over his shoulder again, then ack at Dumledore, who went on, So poor Rosmerta was forced to lurk in her own athroom and pass that necklace to any Hogwarts student who entered the room unaccompanied? And the poisoned mead ... well, naturally, Rosmerta was ale to poison it for you efore she sent the ottle to Slughorn, elieving that it was to e my Christmas present ... yes, very neat ... very neat ... poor Mr Filch would not, of course, think to check a ottle of Rosmertas ... tell me, how have you een communicating with Rosmerta? I thought we had all methods of communication in and out of the school monitored.
Enchanted coins, said Malfoy, as though he was compelled to keep talking, though his wand hand was shaking adly. I had one and she had the other and 1 could send her messages -
Isnt that the secret method of communication the group that called themselves Dumledores Army used last year? asked Dumledore. His voice was light and conversational, ut Harry saw him slip an inch lower down the wall as he said it.
Yeah, I got the idea from them, said Malfoy, with a twisted smile. I got the idea of poisoning the mead from the Mudlood Granger, as well, I heard her talking in the lirary aout Filch not recognising potions ...
Please do not use that offensive word in front of me, said Dumledore.
Malfoy gave a harsh laugh.
You care aout me saying "Mudlood" when Im aout to kill you?
Yes, I do, said Dumledore, and Harry saw his feet slide a little on the floor as he struggled to remain upright. But as for eing aout to kill me, Draco, you have had several long minutes now. We are quite alone. I am more defenceless than you can have dreamed of finding me, and still you have not acted ...
Malfoys mouth contorted involuntarily, as though he had tasted something very itter.
Now, aout tonight, Dumledore went on, I am a little puzzled aout how it happened ... you knew that I had left the school? But of course, he answered his own question, Rosmerta saw me leaving, she tipped you off using your ingenious coins, Im sure ...
Thats right, said Malfoy. But she said you were just going for a drink, youd e ack ...
Well, I certainly did have a drink ... and I came ack ... after a fashion, mumled Dumledore. So you decided to spring a trap for me?
We decided to put the Dark Mark over the Tower and get you to hurry up here, to see whod een killed, said Malfoy. And it worked!
Well ... yes and no ... said Dumledore. But am I to take it, then, that noody has een murdered?
Someones dead, said Malfoy and his voice seemed to go up an octave as he said it. One of your people ... I dont know who, it was dark ... I stepped over the ody ... I was* supposed to e waiting up here when you got ack, only your Phoenix lot got in the way ...
Yes, they do that, said Dumledore.
There was a ang and shouts from elow, louder than ever; it sounded as though people were fighting on the actual spiral staircase that led to where Dumledore, Malfoy and Harry stood, and Harrys heart thundered unheard in his invisile chest ... someone was dead ... Malfoy had stepped over the ody ... ut who was it?
There is little time, one way or another, said Dumledore. So let us discuss your options, Draco.
My options! said Malfoy loudly. Im standing here with a wand - Im aout to kill you -
My dear oy, let us have no more pretence aout that. If you were going to kill me, you would have done it when you first Disarmed me, you would not have stopped for this pleasant chat aout ways and means.
I havent got any options! said Malfoy, and he was sud- denly as white as Dumledore. Ive got to do it! Hell kill me! Hell kill my whole family!
I appreciate the difficulty of your position, said Dumledore. Why else do you think I have not confronted you efore now? Because I knew that you would have een murdered if Lord Voldemort realised that I suspected you.
Malfoy winced at the sound of the name.
I did not dare speak to you of the mission with which I knew you had een entrusted, in case he used Legilimency against you, continued Dumledore. But now at last we can speak plainly to each other ... no harm has een done, you have hurt noody, though you are very lucky that your unintentional victims survived ... I can help you, Draco.
No, you cant, said Malfoy, his wand hand shaking very adly indeed. Noody can. He told me to do it or hell kill me. Ive got no choice.
Come over to the right side, Draco, and we can hide you more completely than you can possily imagine. What is more, I can send memers of the Order to your mother tonight to hide her likewise. Your father is safe at the moment in Azkaan ... when the time comes we can protect him too ... come over to the right side, Draco ... you are not a killer ...
Malfoy stared at Dumledore.
But I got this far, didnt I? he said slowly. They thought Id die in the attempt, ut Im here ... and youre in my power ... Im the one with the wand ... youre at my mercy ...
No, Draco, said Dumledore quietly. It is my mercy, and not yours, that matters now.
Malfoy did not speak. His mouth was open, his wand hand still tremling. Harry thought he saw it drop y a fraction -
But suddenly footsteps were thundering up the stairs and a second later Malfoy was uffeted out of the way as four people in lack roes urst through the door on to the ram-parts. Still paralysed, his eyes staring unlinkingly, Harry gazed in terror upon four strangers: it seemed the Death Eaters had won the fight elow.
A lumpy-looking man with an odd lopsided leer gave a wheezy giggle.
Dumledore cornered! he said, and he turned to a stocky little woman who looked as though she could e his sister and who was grinning eagerly. Dumledore wandless, Dumledore alone! Well done, Draco, well done!
Good evening, Amycus, said Dumledore calmly, as though welcoming the man to a tea party. And youve rought Alecto too ... charming ...
The woman gave an angry little titter.
Think your little jokesll help you on your death ed, then? she jeered.
Jokes? No, no, these are manners, replied Dumledore.
Do it, said the stranger standing nearest to Harry, a ig, rangy man with matted grey hair and whiskers, whose lack Death Eaters roes looked uncomfortaly tight. He had a voice like none that Harry had ever heard: a rasping ark of a voice. Harry could smell a powerful mixture of dirt, sweat and, unmistakealy, of lood coming from him. His filthy hands had long yellowish nails.
Is that you, Fenrir? asked Dumledore.
Thats right, rasped the other. Pleased to see me, Dumledore?
No, I cannot say that I am ...
Fenrir Greyack grinned, showing pointed teeth. Blood trickled down his chin and he licked his lips slowly, oscenely.
But you know how much I like kids, Dumledore.
Am I to take it that you are attacking even without the full moon now? This is most unusual ... you have developed a taste for human flesh that cannot e satisfied once a month?
Thats right, said Greyack. Shocks you, that, does it, Dumledore? Frightens you?
Well, I cannot pretend it does not disgust me a little, said Dumledore. And, yes, I am a little shocked that Draco here invited you, of all people, into the school where his friends live...
I didnt, reathed Malfoy. He was not looking at Greyack; he did not seem to want to even glance at him. I didnt know he was going to come -
I wouldnt want to miss a trip to Hogwarts, Dumledore, rasped Greyack. Not when there are throats to e ripped out ... delicious, delicious ...
And he raised a yellow fingernail and picked at his front teeth, leering at Dumledore.
1 could do you for afters, Dumledore ...
No, said the fourth Death Eater sharply. He had a heavy, rutal-looking face. Weve got orders. Dracos got to do it. Now, Draco, and quickly.
Malfoy was showing less resolution than ever. He looked terrified as he stared into Dumledores face, which was even paler, and rather lower than usual, as he had slid so far down the rampart wall.
Hes not long for this world anyway, if you ask me! said the lopsided man, to the accompaniment of his sisters wheezing giggles. Look at him - whats happened to you, then, Dumy?
Oh, weaker resistance, slower reflexes, Amycus, said Dumledore. Old age, in short ... one day, perhaps, it will happen to you ... if you are lucky ...
Whats that mean, then, whats that mean? yelled the Death Eater, suddenly violent. Always the same, werent yeh, Dumy, talking and doing nothing, nothing, I dont even know why the Dark Lords othering to kill yeh! Come on, Draco, do it!
But at that moment, there were renewed sounds of scuffling from elow and a voice shouted, Theyve locked the stairs - Reducto! REDUCTO!
Harrys heart leapt: so these four had not eliminated all opposition, ut merely roken through the fight to the top of the Tower, and, y the sound of it, created a arrier ehind them -
Now, Draco, quickly! said the rutal-faced man angrily.
But Malfoys hand was shaking so adly that he could arely aim.
Til do it, snarled Greyack, moving towards Dumledore with his hands outstretched, his teeth ared.
I said no! shouted the rutal-faced man; there was a flash of light and the werewolf was lasted out of the way; he hit the ramparts and staggered, looking furious. Harrys heart was hammering so hard it seemed impossile that noody could hear him standing there, imprisoned y Dumledores spell -if he could only move, he could aim a curse from under the Cloak -
Draco, do it, or stand aside so one of us - screeched the woman, ut at that precise moment the door to the ramparts urst open once more and there stood Snape, his wand clutched in his hand as his lack eyes swept the scene, from Dumledore slumped against the wall, to the four Death Eaters, including the enraged werewolf, and Malfoy.
Weve got a prolem, Snape, said the lumpy Amycus, whose eyes and wand were fixed alike upon Dumledore, the oy doesnt seem ale -
But someody else had spoken Snapes name, quite softly.
Severus ...
The sound frightened Harry eyond anything he had experienced all evening. For the first time, Dumledore was pleading.
Snape said nothing, ut walked forwards and pushed Malfoy roughly out of the way. The three Death Eaters fell ack without a word. Even the werewolf seemed cowed.
Snape gazed for a moment at Dumledore, and there was revulsion and hatred etched in the harsh lines of his face.
Severus ... please ..."
Snape raised his wand and pointed it directly at Dumledore.
Avada Kedavra!
A jet of green light shot from the end of Snapes wand and hit Dumledore squarely in the chest. Harrys scream of horror never left him; silent and unmoving, he was forced to watch as Dumledore was lasted into the air: for a split second he seemed to hang suspended eneath the shining skull, and then he fell slowly ackwards, like a great rag doll, over the attlements and out of sight.
Chapter 28: Flight of the Prince
Harry felt as though he too were hurtling through space; it had not happened. . . . It could not have happened. ...
"Out of here, quickly," said Snape.
He seized Malfoy y the scruff of the neck and forced him through the door ahead of the rest; Greyack and the squat rother and sister followed, the latter oth panting excitedly. As they vanished through the door, Harry realized he could move again. What was now holding him paralyzed against the wall was not magic, ut horror and shock. He threw the Invisiility Cloak aside as the rutal-faced Death Eater, last to leave the tower top, was disappearing through the door.
"Petrificus Totalus!"
The Death Eater uckled as though hit in the ack with something solid and fell to the ground, rigid as a waxwork, ut he had arely hit the floor when Harry was clamering over him and running down the darkened staircase.
Terror tore at Harry;s heart. ... He had to get to Dumledore and he had to catch Snape. ... Somehow the two things were linked. ... He could reverse what had happened if he had them oth together. ... Dumledore could not have died. ...
He leapt the last ten steps of the spiral staircase and stopped where he landed, his wand raised. The dimly lit corridor was full of dust; half the ceiling seemed to have fallen in; and a attle was raging efore him, ut even as he attempted to make out who were fighting whom, he heard the hated voice shout, "Its over, time to go!" and saw Snape disappearing around the corner at the far end of the corridor; he and Malfoy seemed to have forced their way through the fight unscathed. As Harry plunged after them, one of the fighters detached themselves from the fray and flew at him: it was the werewolf, Fenrir. He was on top of Harry efore Harry could raise his wand: Harry fell ackward, with filthy matted hair in his face, the stench of sweat and lood filling his nose and mouth, hot greedy reath at his throat -
"Petrificus Totalus!"
Harry felt Fenrir collapse against him; with a stupendous effort he pushed the werewolf off and onto the floor as a jet of green light came flying toward him; he ducked and ran, headfirst, into the fight. His feet met something squashy and slippery on the floor and he stumled: There were two odies lying there, lying facedown in a pool of lood, ut there was no time to investigate. Harry now saw red hair flying like flames in front of him: Ginny was locked in comat with the lumpy Death Eater, Amycus, who was throwing hex after hex at her while she dodged them: Amycus was giggling, enjoying the sport: "Crucio - Crucio - you cant dance forever, pretty-"
"Impedimenta!" yelled Harry.
His jinx hit Amycus in the chest: He gave a piglike squeal of pain, was lifted off his feet and slammed into the opposite wall, slid down it, and fell out of sight ehind Ron, Professor McGonagall, and Lupin, each of whom was attling a separate Death Eater. Beyond them, Harry saw Tonks fighting an enormous lond wizard who was sending curses flying in all directions, so that they ricocheted off the walls around them, cracking stone, shattering the nearest window -
"Harry, where did you come from?" Ginny cried, ut there was no time to answer her. He put his head down and sprinted forward, narrowly avoiding a last that erupted over his head, showering them all in its of wall. Snape must not escape, he must catch up with Snape -
"Take that!" shouted Professor McGonagall, and Harry glimpsed the female Death Eater, Alecto, sprinting away down the corridor with her arms over her head, her rother right ehind her. He launched himself after them ut his foot caught on something, and next moment he was lying across someones legs. Looking around, he saw Nevilles pale, round face flat against the floor. "Neville, are you - ?"
"Mall right," muttered Neville, who was clutching his stomach, "Harry . . . Snape n Malfoy . . . ran past. . ."
"I know, Im on it!" said Harry, aiming a hex from the floor at the enormous lond Death Eater who was causing most of the chaos. The man gave a howl of pain as the spell hit him in the face: He wheeled around, staggered, and then pounded away after the rother and sister. Harry
scramled up from the floor and egan to sprint along the corridor, ignoring the angs issuing from ehind him, the yells of the others to come ack, and the mute call of the figures on the ground whose fate he did not yet know. . . .
He skidded around the corner, his trainers slippery with lood; Snape had an immense head start. Was it possile that he had already entered the cainet in the Room of Requirement, or had the Order made steps to secure it, to prevent the Death Eaters retreating that way? He could hear nothing ut his own pounding feet, his own hammering heart as he sprinted along the next empty corridor, ut then spotted a loody footprint that showed at least one of the fleeing Death Eaters was heading toward the front doors - perhaps the Room of Requirement was indeed locked -
He skidded around another corner and a curse flew past him; he dived ehind a suit of armor that exploded. He saw the rother and sister running down the marle staircase ahead and aimed jinxes at them, ut merely hit several ewigged witches in a portrait on the landing, who ran screeching into neighoring paintings. As he leapt the wreckage of armor, Harry heard more shouts and screams; other people within the castle seemed to have awoken. . . .
He pelted toward a shortcut, hoping to overtake the rother and sister and close in on Snape and Malfoy, who must surely have reached the grounds y now. Rememering to leap the vanishing step halfway down the concealed staircase, he urst through a tapestry at the ottom and out into a corridor where a numer of ewildered and pajama-clad Hufflepuffs stood.
"Harry! We heard a noise, and someone said something aoui the Dark Mark -" egan Ernie Macmillan.
"Out of the way!" yelled Harry, knocking two oys aside as he sprinted toward the landing and down the remainder of the marle staircase. The oak front doors had een lasted open, there were smears of lood on the flagstones, and several terrified students stood huddled against the walls, one or two still cowering with their arms over their faces. The giant Gryffindor hourglass had een hit y a curse, and the ruies within were still falling, with a loud rattle, onto the flagstones elow.
Harry flew across the entrance hall and out into the dark grounds: He could just make out three figures racing across the lawn, heading for the gates eyond which they could Disapparate - y the looks of them, the huge lond Death Eater and, some way ahead of him, Snape and Malfoy. ...
The cold night air ripped at Harrys lungs as he tore after them; he saw a flash of light in the distance that momentarily silhouetted his quarry. He did not know what it was ut continued to run, not yet near enough to get a good aim with a curse -
Another flash, shouts, retaliatory jets of light, and Harry understood: Hagrid had emerged from his cain and was trying to stop the Death Eaters escaping, and though every reath seemed to shred his lungs and the stitch in his chest was like fire, Harry sped up as an unidden voice in his head said: not Hagrid. . . not Hagrid too . . .
Something caught Harry hard in the small of the ack and he fell forward, his face smacking the ground, lood pouring out of oth nostrils: He knew, even as he rolled over, his wand ready, that the rother and sister he had overtaken using his shortcut were closing in ehind him. . . .
"Impedimenta!" he yelled as he rolled over again, crouching close to the dark ground, and miraculously his jinx hit one of them, who stumled and fell, tripping up the other; Harry leapt to his feet and sprinted on after Snape.
And now he saw the vast outline of Hagrid, illuminated y the light of the crescent moon revealed suddenly ehind clouds; the lond Death Eater was aiming curse after curse at the gamekeeper; ut Hagrids immense strength and the toughened skin he had inherited from his giantess mother seemed to e protecting him. Snape and Malfoy, however, were still running; they would soon e eyond the gates, ale to Disapparate -
Harry tore past Hagrid and his opponent, took aim at Snapes ack, and yelled, "Stupefy!"
He missed; the jet of red light soared past Snapes head; Snape shouted, "Run, Draco!"and turned. Twenty yards apart, he and Harry looked at each other efore raising their wands simultaneously.
"Cruc - "
But Snape parried the curse, knocking Harry ackward off his feet efore he could complete it; Harry rolled over and scramled ack up again as the
huge Death Eater ehind him yelled, "Incendio!" Harry heard an explosive ang and a dancing orange light spilled over all of them: Hagrids house was on fire.
"Fangs in there, yer evil - !" Hagrid ellowed.
"Cruc -" yelled Harry for the second time, aiming for the figure ahead illuminated in the dancing firelight, ut Snape locked the spell again. Harry could see him sneering.
"No Unforgivale Curses from you, Potter!" he shouted over the rushing of the flames, Hagrids yells, and the wild yelping of the trapped Fang. "You havent got the nerve or the aility -"
"Incarc-"Harry roared, ut Snape deflected the spell with an almost lazy flick of his arm.
"Fight ack!" Harry screamed at him. "Fight ack, you cowardly-----"
"Coward, did you call me, Potter?" shouted Snape. "Your father would never attack me unless it was four on one, what would you call him, I wonder?" "Stupe-"
"Blocked again and again and again until you learn to keep your mouth shut and your mind closed, Potter!" sneered Snape, deflecting the curse once more. "Now come!" he shouted at the huge Death Eater ehind Harry. "It is time to e gone, efore the Ministry turns up -"
"Impedi -"
But efore he could finish this jinx, excruciating pain hit Harry; he keeled over in the grass. Someone was screaming, he would surely die of this agony, Snape was going to torture him to death or madness -
"No!" roared Snapes voice and the pain stopped as suddenly as it had started; Harry lay curled on the dark grass, clutching his wand and panting; somewhere overhead Snape was shouting, "Have you forgotten our orders? Potter elongs to the Dark Lord - we are to leave him! Go! Go!"
And Harry felt the ground shudder under his face as the rother and sister and the enormous Death Eater oeyed, running toward the gates. Harry uttered an inarticulate yell of rage: In that instant, he cared not whether he lived or died. Pushing himself to his feet again, he staggered lindly toward Snape, the man he now hated as much as he hated Voldemort himself -
"Sectum - "
Snape flicked his wand and the curse was repelled yet again; ut Harry was mere feet away now and he could see Snapes face clearly at last: He was no longer sneering or jeering; the lazing flames showed a face full of rage. Mustering all his powers of concentration, Harry thought, Levi -
"No, Potter!" screamed Snape. There was a loud BANG and Harry was soaring ackward, hitting the ground hard again, ;un\ this time his wand flew
out of his hand. He could hear Hagrid yelling and Fang howling as Snape closed in and looked down on him where he lay, wandless and defenseless as Dumledore hadl een. Snapes pale face, illuminated y the flaming cain, was suffused with hatred just as it had een efore he had cursed Dumledore.
"You dare use my own spells against me, Potter? It was I who invented them - I, the Half-Blood Prince! And youd turn my inventions on me, like your filthy father, would you? I dont think so . . . no"
Harry had dived for his wand; Snape shot a hex at it and it flew feet away into the darkness and out of sight.
"Kill me then," panted Harry, who felt no fear at all, ut only rage and contempt. "Kill me like you killed him, you coward -"
"DONT -" screamed Snape, and his face was suddenly demented, inhuman, as though he was in as much pain as the yelping, howling dog stuck in the urning house ehind them - "CALL ME COWARD!"
And he slashed at the air: Harry felt a white-hot, whiplike something hit him across the face and was slammed ackward into the ground. Spots of light urst in front of his eyes and for a moment all the reath seemed to have gone from his ody, then he heard a rush of wings aove him and something enormous oscured the stars. Buckeak had flown at Snape, who staggered ackward as the razor-sharp claws slashed at him. As Harry raised himself into a sitting position, his head still swimming from its last contact
with the ground, he saw Snape running as hard as he could, the enormous east flapping ehind him and screeching as Harry had never heard him screech -
Harry struggled to his feet, looking around groggily for his wand, hoping to give chase again, ut even as his fingers fumled in the grass, discarding twigs, he knew it would e too late, and sure enough, y the time he had located his wand, he turned only to see the hippogriff circling the gates. Snape had managed to Disapparate just eyond the schools oundaries.
"Hagrid," muttered Harry, still dazed, looking around. "HAGRID?"
He stumled toward the urning house as an enormous figure emerged from out of the flames carrying Fang on his ack. With a cry of thankfulness, Harry sank to his knees; he was shaking in every lim, his ody ached all over, and his reath came in painful stas.
"Yeh all righ, Harry? Yeh all righ? Speak ter me, Harry. . .."
Hagrids huge, hairy face was swimming aove Harry, locking out the stars. Harry could smell urnt wood and dog hair; he put out a hand and felt Fangs reassuringly warm and alive ody quivering eside him.
"Im all right," panted Harry. "Are you?" "Course I am . . . take moren that ter finish me."
Hagrid put his hands under Harrys arms and raised him up with such force that Harrys feet momentarily left the ground efore Hagrid set him upright again. He could see lood trickling down Hagrids cheek from a deep cut under one eye, which was swelling rapidly.
"We should put out your house," said Harry, "the charms Aguamenti ..."
"Knew it was summat like that," mumled Hagrid, and he raised a smoldering pink, flowery umrella and said, "Aguamenti!"
A jet of water flew out of the umrella tip. Harry raised his wand arm, which felt like lead, and murmured "Aguamenti" too: Together, he and Hagrid poured water on the house until the last flame was extinguished.
"Snot too ad," said Hagrid hopefully a few minutes later, looking at the smoking wreck. "Nothin Dumledore won e ale to put righ . . ."
Harry felt a searing pain in his stomach at the sound of the name. In the silence and the stillness, horror rose inside him.
"Hagrid ..."
"I was indin up a couple o owtruckle legs when I heard em coming," said Hagrid sadly, still staring at his wrecked cain. "Theyll in urnt ter twigs, poor little things. . . ."
"Hagrid . . ."
"But what happened, Harry? I jus saw them Death Eaters run-nin down from the castle, ut what the ruddy hell was Snape doin with em? Wheres he gone - was he chasin them?"
"He . . ." Harry cleared his throat; it was dry from panic and the smoke. "Hagrid, he killed . . ."
"Killed?" said Hagrid loudly, staring down at Harry. "Snape killed? Whatre yeh on aou, Harry?"
"Dumledore," said Harry. "Snape killed .. . Dumledore."
Hagrid simply looked at him, the little of his face that could e seen completely lank, uncomprehending.
"Dumledore wha, Harry?"
"Hes dead. Snape killed him...."
"Don say that," said Hagrid roughly. "Snape kill Dumledore - don e stupid, Harry. Whas made yeh say tha?"
"I saw it happen." , ,..
"Yeh couldn have."
"I saw it, Hagrid."
Hagrid shook his head; his expression was diselieving ut sympathetic, and Harry knew that Hagrid thought he had sustained a low to the head, that he was confused, perhaps y the aftereffects of a jinx. ...
"What musta happened was, Dumledore musta told Snape ter go with them Death Eaters," Hagrid said confidently. "I suppose hes gotta keep his cover. Look, lets get yeh ack up ter the school. Come on, Harry. ..."
Harry did not attempt to argue or explain. He was still shaking uncontrollaly. Hagrid would find out soon enough, too soon. ... As they directed their steps ack toward the castle, Harry saw that many of its windows were lit now. He could imagine, clearly, the scenes inside as people moved from room to room, telling each other that Death Eaters had got in, that the Mark was shining over Hogwarts, that someody must have een killed. . . .
The oak front doors stood open ahead of them, light flooding out onto the drive and the lawn. Slowly, uncertainly, dressing-gowned people were creeping down the steps, looking around nervously for some sign of the Death Eaters who had fled into the night. Harrys eyes, however, were fixed upon the ground at the foot of the tallest tower. He imagined that he could see a lack, huddled mass lying in the grass there, though he was really too far away to see anything of the sort. Even as he stared wordlessly at the place where he thought
Dumledores ody must lie, however, he saw people eginning to move toward it.
"Whatre they all lookin at?" said Hagrid, as he and Harry approached the castle front, Fang keeping as close as he could to their ankles. "Whas that lyin on the grass?" Hagrid added sharply, heading now toward the foot of the Astronomy Tower, where a small crowd was congregating. "See it, Harry? Right at the foot of the tower? Under where the Mark . . . Blimey . . . yeh don think someone got thrown - ?"
Hagrid fell silent, the thought apparently too horrile to express aloud. Harry walked alongside him, feeling the aches and pains in his face and his legs where the various hexes of the last half hour had hit him, though in an oddly detached way, as though someody near him was suffering them. What was real and inescapale was the awful pressing feeling in his chest. . . .
He and Hagrid moved, dreamlike, through the murmuring crowd to the very front, where the dumstruck students and teachers had left a gap.
Harry heard Hagrids moan of pain and shock, ut he did not stop; he walked slowly forward until he reached the place where Dumledore lay and crouched down eside him. He had known there was no hope from the moment that the full Body-Bind Curse Dumledore had placed upon him lifted, known that it could have happened only ecause its caster was dead, ut there was still no preparation for seeing him here, spread-eagled, roken: the greatest wizard Harry had ever, or would ever, meet.
Dumledores eyes were closed; ut for the strange angle of his arms and legs, he might have een sleeping. Harry reached out, straightened the half-moon spectacles upon the crooked nose, and wiped a trickle of lood from the mouth with his own sleeve. Then he gazed down at the wise old face and tried to asor the enormous and incomprehensile truth: that never again would Dumledore speak to him, never again could he help-----
The crowd murmured ehind Harry. After what seemed like a long time, he ecame aware that he was kneeling upon something hard and looked down.
The locket they had managed to steal so many hours efore had fallen out of Dumledores pocket. It had opened, perhaps due to the force with which it hit the ground. And although he could not feel more shock or horror or sadness than he felt already, Harry knew, as he picked it up, that there was something wrong-----
He turned the locket over in his hands. This was neither as large as the locket he rememered seeing in the Pensieve, nor were there any markings upon it, no sign of the ornate S that was supposed to e Slytherins mark. Moreover, there was nothing inside ut for a scrap of folded parchment wedged tightly into the place where a portrait should have een.
Automatically, without really thinking aout what he was doing, Harry pulled out the fragment of parchment, opened it, and read y the light of the many wands that had now een lit ehind him:
To the Dark Lord
I now I will e dead long efore you read this ut I want you to know that it was I who dicovered your secret. I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy it as soon as I can.
I face death in the hope that when you meet your match you will e mortal once more.
R.A.B.
Harry neither knew nor cared what the message meant. Only one thing mattered: This was not a Horcrux. Dumledore had weakened himself y drinking that terrile potion for nothing. Harry crumpled the parchment in his hand, and his eyes urned with tears as ehind him Fang egan to howl.
Chapter 29: The Pheonix Lament
C mere, Harry ..."
"No."
"Yeh can stay here, Harry. ... Come on, now...." "No."
He did not want to leave Dumledores side, he did not want to move anywhere. Hagrids hand on his shoulder was tremling. Then another voice said, "Harry, come on."
A much smaller and warmer hand had enclosed his and was pulling him upward. He oeyed its pressure without really thinking aout it. Only as he walked lindly ack through the crowd did he realize, from a trace of flowery scent on the air, that it was Ginny who was leading him ack into the castle. Incomprehensile voices attered him, sos and shouts and wails staed the night, ut Harry and Ginny walked on, ack up the steps into the entrance hall. Faces swam on the edges of Harrys vision, people were peering at him, whispering, wondering, and Gryffindor ruies glistened on the floor like drops of lood as they made their way toward the marle staircase.
"Were going to the hospital wing," said Ginny.
"Im not hurt," said Harry. !
"Its McGonagalls orders," said Ginny. "Everyones up there, Ron and Hermione and Lupin and everyone -"
Fear stirred in Harrys chest again: He had forgotten the inert figures he had left ehind.
"Ginny, who else is dead?"
"Dont worry, none of us."
"But the Dark Mark - Malfoy said he stepped over a ody -"
"He stepped over Bill, ut its all right, hes alive."
There was something in her voice, however, that Harry knew oded ill.
"Are you sure?"
"Of course Im sure . . . hes a - a it of a mess, thats all. Greyack attacked him. Madam Pomfrey says he wont - wont look the same anymore. . . ."
Ginnys voice tremled a little.
"We dont really know what the aftereffects will e - I mean, Greyack eing a werewolf, ut not transformed at the time."
"But the others . . . There were other odies on the ground. . . ."
"Neville and Professor Flitwick are oth hurt, ut Madam Pomfrey says theyll e all right. And a Death Eaters dead, he got hit y a Killing Curse that huge lond one was firing off everywhere - Harry, if we hadnt had your Felix potion, I think wed all have een killed, ut everything seemed to just miss us -"
They had reached the hospital wing. Pushing open the doors, Harry saw Neville lying, apparently asleep, in a ed near the door. Ron, Hermione, Luna, Tonks, and Lupin were gathered around another ed near the far end of the ward. At the sound of the doors opening, they all looked up. Hermione ran to Harry and hugged him; Lupin moved forward too, looking anxious.
"Are you all right, Harry?"
"Im fine.... Hows Bill?"
Noody answered. Harry looked over Hermiones shoulder and saw an unrecognizale face lying on Bills pillow, so adly slashed and ripped that he looked grotesque. Madam Pomfrey was daing at his wounds with some harsh-smelling green ointment. Harry rememered how Snape had mended Malfoys Sectumsempra wounds so easily with his wand.
"Cant you fix them with a charm or something?" he asked the matron.
"No charm will work on these," said Madam Pomfrey. "Ive tried everything I know, ut there is no cure for werewolf ites."
"But he wasnt itten at the full moon," said Ron, who was gazing down into his rothers face as though he could somehow force him to mend just y staring. "Greyack hadnt transformed, so surely Bill wont e a - a real - ?" :
He looked uncertainly at Lupin.
"No, I dont think that Bill will e a true werewolf," said Lupin, "ut that does not mean that there wont e some contamination. Those are cursed wounds. They are unlikely ever to heal fully, and - and Bill might have some wolfish characteristics from now on."
"Dumledore might know something thatd work, though," Ron said. "Where is he? Bill fought those maniacs on Dumledores orders, Dumledore owes him, he cant leave him in this state -"
"Ron - Dumledores dead," said Ginny.
"No!" Lupin looked wildly from Ginny to Harry, as though hoping the latter might contradict her, ut when Harry did nor, Lupin collapsed into a chair eside Bills ed, his hands over his face. Harry had never seen Lupin lose control efore; he felt as though he was intruding upon something private, indecent. He turned away and caught Rons eye instead, exchanging in silence a look that confirmed what Ginny had said.
"How did he die?" whispered Tonks. "How did it happen?"
"Snape killed him," said Harry. "I was there, I saw it. We arrived ack on the Astronomy Tower ecause thats where the Mark was. . . . Dumledore was ill, he was weak, ut I think he realized it was a trap when we heard footsteps running up the stairs. He immoilized me, I couldnt do anything, I was under the Invisiility Cloak - and then Malfoy came through the door and disarmed him -"
Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth and Ron groaned. Lunas mouth tremled.
"- more Death Eaters arrived - and then Snape - and Snape did it. The Avada Kedavra." Harry couldnt go on.
Madam Pomfrey urst into tears. Noody paid her any attention except Ginny, who whispered, "Shh! Listen!"
Gulping, Madam Pomfrey pressed her fingers to her mouth, her eyes wide. Somewhere out in the darkness, a phoenix was singing in a way Harry had never heard efore: a stricken lament of terrile eauty. And Harry felt, as he had felt aout phoenix song efore, that the music was inside him, not without: It was his own grief turned magically to song that echoed across the grounds and through the castle windows.
How long they all stood there, listening, he did not know, nor why it seemed to ease their pain a little to listen to the sound of their mourning, ut it felt like a long time later that the hospital door opened again and Professor McGonagall entered the ward. Like all the rest, she ore marks of the recent attle: There were grazes on her face and her roes were ripped.
"Molly and Arthur are on their way," she said, and the spell of the music was roken: Everyone roused themselves as though coming out of trances, turning again to look at Bill, or else to ru their own eyest shake their heads. "Harry, what happened? According to Hagrid you were with Professor Dumledore when he - when it happened. He says Professor Snape was involved in some -" "Snape killed Dumledore," said Harry.
She stared at him for a moment, then swayed alarmingly; Madam Pomfrey, who seemed to have pulled herself together, ran forward, conjuring a chair from thin air, which she pushed under McGonagall.
"Snape," repeated McGonagall faintly, falling into the chair. "We all wondered . . . ut he trusted . . . always . . . Snape... I cant elieve it. ..."
"Snape was a highly accomplished Occlumens," said Lupin, his voice uncharacteristically harsh. "We always knew that."
"But Dumledore swore he was on our side!" whispered Tonks. "I always thought Dumledore must know something aout Snape that we didnt. ..." .
"He always hinted that he had an ironclad reason for trusting Snape," muttered Professor McGonagall, now daing at the corners of her leaking eyes with a tartan-edged handkerchief. "I mean . . . with Snapes history ... of course people were ound to wonder. . . ut Dumledore told me explicitly that Snapes repentance was asolutely genuine-----Wouldnt hear a word against him!"
"Id love to know what Snape told him to convince him," said Tonks.
"I know," said Harry, and they all turned to look at him. "Snape passed Voldemort the information that made Voldemort hunt down my mum and dad. Then Snape told Dumledore he hadnt realized what he was doing, he was really sorry hed done it, sorry that they were dead."
They all stared at him.
"And Dumledore elieved that?" said Lupin incredulously. "Dumledore elieved Snape was sorry James was dead? Snape hated James. . . ."
"And he didnt think my mother was worth a damn either," said Harry, "ecause she was Muggle-orn... Mudlood, he called her. ..."
Noody asked how Harry knew this. All of them seemed to e lost in horrified shock, trying to digest the monstrous truth of what had happened.
"This is all my fault," said Professor McGonagall suddenly. She looked disoriented, twisting her wet handkerchief in her hands. "My fault. I sent
Filius to fetch Snape tonight, I actually sent for him to come and help us! If I hadnt alerted Snape to what was going on, he might never have joined forces with the Death Eaters. I dont think he knew they were there efore Filius told him, I dont think he knew they were coming."
"It isnt your fault, Minerva," said Lupin firmly. "We all wanted more help, we were glad to think Snape was on his way...."
"So when he arrived at the fight, he joined in on the Death Eaters side?" asked Harry, who wanted every detail of Snapes duplicity and infamy, feverishly collecting more reasons to hate him, to swear vengeance.
"I dont know exactly how it happened," said Professor McGonagall distractedly. "Its all so confusing. . . . Dumledore had told us that he would e leaving the school for a few hours and that we were to patrol the corridors just in case . . . Remus, Bill, and Nymphadora were to join us ... and so we patrolled. All seemed quiet. Every secret passageway out of the school was covered. We knew noody could fly in. There were powerful enchantments on every entrance into the castle. I still dont know how the Death Eaters can possily have entered. . . ."
"I do," said Harry, and he explained, riefly, aout the pair of Vanishing Cainets and the magical pathway they formed. "So they got in through the Room of Requirement."
Almost against his will he glanced from Ron to Hermione, oth of whom looked devastated.
"I messed up, Harry," said Ron leakly. "We did like you told us: We checked the Marauders Map and we couldnt see Malfoy on it, so we thought he must e in the Room of Requirement, so me, Ginny, and Neville went to keep watch on it... ut Malfoy got past us."
"He came out of the room aout an hour after we started keeping watch," said Ginny. "He was on his own, clutching that awful shriveled arm -"
"His Hand of Glory," said Ron. "Gives light only to the holder, rememer?"
"Anyway," Ginny went on, "he must have een checking whether the coast was clear to let the Death Eaters out, ecause the moment he saw us he threw something into the air and it all went pitch-lack -"
"- Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder," said Ron itterly. "Fred and Georges. Im going to e having a word with them aout who they let uy their products."
"We tried everything, Lumos, Incendio," said Ginny. "Nothing would penetrate the darkness; all we could do was grope our way out of the corridor again, and meanwhile we could hear people rushing past us. Oviously Malfoy could see ecause of that hand thing and was guiding them, ut we didnt dare use any curses or anything in case we hit each other, and y the time wed reached a corridor that was light, theyd gone."
"Luckily," said Lupin hoarsely, "Ron, Ginny, and Neville ran into us almost immediately and told us what had happened. We found the Death Eaters minutes later, heading in the direction of the Astronomy Tower. Malfoy oviously hadnt expected more people to e on the watch; he seemed to have exhausted his supply of Darkness Powder, at any rate. A fight roke out, they scattered and we gave chase. One of them, Gion, roke away and headed up the tower stairs -"
"To set off the Mark?" asked Harry.
"He must have done, yes, they must have arranged that efore they left the Room of Requirement," said Lupin. "But I dont think Gion liked the idea of waiting up there alone for Dumledore, ecause he came running ack downstairs to rejoin the fight and was hit y a Killing Curse that just missed me."
"So if Ron was watching the Room of Requirement with Ginny and Neville," said Harry, turning to Hermione, "were you - ?"
"Outside Snapes office, yes," whispered Hermione, her eyes sparkling with tears, "with Luna. We hung around for ages outside it and nothing happened. . . . We didnt know what was going on upstairs, Ron had taken the map-----It was nearly midnight when Professor Flitwick came sprinting down into the dungeons. He was shouting aout Death Eaters in the castle, I dont think he really registered that Luna and I were there at all, he just urst his way into Snapes office and we heard him saying that Snape had to go ack with him and help and then we heard a loud thump and Snape came
hurtling out of his room and he saw us and - and -" "What?" Harry urged her.
"I was so stupid, Harry!" said Hermione in a high-pitched whisper. "He said Professor Flitwick had collapsed and that we should go and take care of him while he - while he went to help fight the Death Eaters -" She covered her face in shame and continued to talk into her fingers, so that her voice was muffled. "We went into his office to see if we could help Professor Flitwick and found him unconscious on the floor. . . and oh, its so ovious now, Snape must have Stupefied Flitwick, ut we didnt realize, Harry, we didnt realize, we just let Snape go!"
"Its not your fault," said Lupin firmly. "Hermione, had you not oeyed Snape and got out of the way, he proaly would have killed you and Luna."
"So then he came upstairs," said Harry, who was watching Snape running up the marle staircase in his minds eye, his lack roes illowing ehind him as ever, pulling his wand from under his cloak as he ascended, "and he found the place where you were all fighting. ..."
"We were in troule, we were losing," said Tonks in a low voice. "Gion was down, ut the rest of the Death Eaters seemed ready to fight to the death. Neville had een hurt, Bill had een savaged y Greyack... It was all dark . . . curses flying everywhere . . . The Malfoy oy had vanished, he must have slipped past, up the stairs . . . then more of them ran after him, ut one of them locked the stair ehind them with some kind of curse. . . . Neville ran at it and got thrown up into the air -"
"None of us could reak through," said Ron, "and that massive Death Eater was still firing off jinxes all over the place, they were ouncing off the walls and arely missing us. . . ."
"And then Snape was there," said Tonks, "and then he wasnt -"
"I saw him running toward us, ut that huge Death Eaters jinx just missed me right afterward and I ducked and lost track of things," said Ginny.
"I saw him run straight through the cursed arrier as though it wasnt there," said Lupin. "I tried to follow him, ut was thrown ack just like Neville. . . ."
"He must have known a spell we didnt," whispered McGonagall. "After all - he was the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. ... I just assumed that he was in a hurry to chase after the Death Eaters whod escaped up to the tower. ..."
"He was," said Harry savagely, "ut to help them, not to stop them . . . and Ill et you had to have a Dark Mark to get through that arrier - so what happened when he came ack down?"
"Well, the ig Death Eater had just fired off a hex that caused half the ceiling to fall in, and also roke the curse locking the stairs," said Lupin. "We all ran forward - those of us who were still standing anyway - and then
Snape and the oy emerged out of the dust - oviously, none of us attacked them -"
"We just let them pass," said Tonks in a hollow voice. "We thought they were eing chased y the Death Eaters - and next thing, the other Death Eaters and Greyack were ack and we were fighting again - I thought I heard Snape shout something, ut I dont know what -"
"He shouted, Its over," said Harry. "Hed done what hed meant to do."
They all fell silent. Fawkess lament was still echoing over the dark grounds outside. As the music revererated upon the air, unidden, unwelcome thoughts slunk into Harrys mind. . . . Had they taken Dumledores ody from the foot of the tower yet? What would happen to it next? Where would it rest? He clenched his fists tighdy in his pockets. He could feel the small cold lump of the fake Horcrux against the knuckles of his right hand.
The doors of the hospital wing urst open, making them all jump: Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were striding up the ward, Fleur just ehind them, her eautiful face terrified.
"Molly - Arthur -" said Professor McGonagall, jumping up and hurrying to greet them. "I am so sorry -"
"Bill," whispered Mrs. Weasley, darting past Professor McGonagall as she caught sight of Bills mangled face. "Oh, Bill!"
Lupin and Tonks had got up hastily and retreated so that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley could get nearer to the ed. Mrs. Weasley ent over her son and pressed her lips to his loody forehead.
"You said Greyack attacked him?" Mr. Weasley asked Professor McGonagall distractedly. "But he hadnt transformed? So what does that mean? What will happen to Bill?"
"We dont yet know," said Professor McGonagall, looking helplessly at Lupin.
"There will proaly e some contamination, Arthur," .said Lupin. "It is an odd case, possily unique. . . . We dont know what his ehavior might e like when he awakens. . . ."
Mrs. Weasley took the nasty-smelling ointment from Madam Pomfrey and egan daing at Bills wounds.
"And Dumledore ..." said Mr. Weasley. "Minerva, is it true ... Is he really. . . ?"
As Professor McGonagall nodded, Harry felt Ginny move eside him and looked at her. Her slightly narrowed eyes were fixed upon Fleur, who was gazing down at Bill with a frozen expression on her face.
"Dumledore gone," whispered Mr. Weasley, ut Mrs. Weasley had eyes only for her eldest son; she egan to so, tears falling onto Bills mutilated face.
"Of course, it doesnt matter how he looks. . . . Its not r-really important. . . ut he was a very handsome little -oy . . . always very handsome . . . and he was g-going to e married!"
"And what do you mean y zat?" said Fleur suddenly and loudly. "What do you mean,  he was going to e married?"
Mrs. Weasley raised her tear-stained face, looking startled. "Well -only that-"
"You theenk Bill will not wish to marry me anymore?" demanded Fleur. "You theenk, ecause of these ites, he will not love me?"
"No, thats not what I -"
"Because e will!" said Fleur, drawing herself up to her full height and throwing ack her long mane of silver hair. "It would take more zan a werewolf to stop Bill loving me!"
"Well, yes, Im sure," said Mrs. Weasley, "ut I thought perhaps - given how - how he -"
"You thought I would not weesh to marry him? Or peraps, you hoped?" said Fleur, her nostrils flaring. "What do I care how he looks? I am good-looking enough for oth of us, I theenk! All these scars show is zat my husand is rave! And I shall do zat!" she added fiercely, pushing Mrs. Weasley aside and snatching the ointment from her.
Mrs. Weasley fell ack against her husand and watched Fleur mopping up Bills wounds with a most curious expression upon her face. Noody said anything; Harry did not dare move. Like everyody else, he was waiting for the explosion.
"Our Great-Auntie Muriel," said Mrs. Weasley after a long pause, "has a very eautiful tiara - golin-made - which I am sure I could persuade her to lend you for the wedding. She is very fond of Bill, you know, and it would look lovely with your hair."
"Thank you," said Fleur stiffly. "I am sure zat will e lovely."
And then, Harry did not quite see how it happened, oth , women were crying and hugging each other. Completely ewildered, wondering whether the world had gone mad, he turned around: Ron looked as stunned as he felt and Ginny and Hermione were exchanging startled looks.
"You see!" said a strained voice. Tonks was glaring at Lupin. "She still wants to marry him, even though hes een itten! She doesnt care!
"Its different," said Lupin, arely moving his lips and looking suddenly tense. "Bill will not e a full werewolf. The cases are completely -"
"But I dont care either, I dont care!" said Tonks, seizing the front of Lupins roes and shaking them. "Ive told you a million times. . . ."
And the meaning of Tonkss Patronus and her mouse-colored hair, and the reason she had come running to find Dumledore when she had heard a rumor someone had een attacked y Greyack, all suddenly ecame clear to Harry; it had not een Sinus that Tonks had fallen in love with after all.
"And Ive told you a million times," said Lupin, refusing to meet her eyes, staring at the floor, "that I am too old for you, too poor . . . too dangerous. . . ."
"Ive said all along youre taking a ridiculous line on this, Remus," said Mrs. Weasley over Fleurs shoulder as she patted her on the ack.
"I am not eing ridiculous," said Lupin steadily. "Tonks deserves someody young and whole."
"But she wants you," said Mr. Weasley, with a small smile. "And after all, Remus, young and whole men do not necessarily remain so."
He gestured sadly at his son, lying etween them.
"This is... not the moment to discuss it," said Lupin, avoiding everyodys eyes as he looked around distractedly. "Dumledore is dead. ..."
"Dumledore would have een happier than anyody to think that there was a little more love in the world," said Professor McGonagall curtly, just as the hospital doors opened again and Hagrid walked in.
The little of his face that was not oscured y hair or eard was soaking and swollen; he was shaking with tears, a vast, spotted handkerchief in his hand.
"Ive . . . Ive done it, Professor," he choked. "M-moved him. Professor Sprouts got the kids ack in ed. Professor Flitwicks lyin down, ut he says hell e all righ in a jiffy, an Professor Slughorn says the Ministrys in informed."
"Thank you, Hagrid," said Professor McGonagall, standing up at once and turning to look at the group around Bills ed. "I shall have to see the Ministry when they get here. Hagrid, please tell the Heads of Houses - Slughorn can represent Slytherin - that I want to see them in my office forthwith. I would like you to join us too."
As Hagrid nodded, turned, and shuffled out of the room again, she looked down at Harry. "Before I meet them I would like a quick word with you, Harry. If youll come with me. ..."
Harry stood up, murmured "See you in a it" to Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, and followed Professor McGonagall ack down the ward. The corridors outside were deserted and the only sound was the distant phoenix song. It was several minutes efore Harry ecame aware that they were not heading for Professor McGonagalls office, ut for Dumledores, and another few seconds efore he realized that of course, she had een deputy headmistress, . . . Apparently she was now headmistress ... so the room ehind the gargoyle was now hers.
In silence they ascended the moving spiral staircase and entered the circular office. He did not know what he had expected: that the room would e draped in lack, perhaps, or even that Dumledores ody might e lying there. In fact, it looked almost exactly as it had done when he and Dumledore had left it mere hours previously: the silver instruments whirring and puffing on their spindle legged tales, Gryffindors sword in its glass case gleaming in the moonlight, the Sorting Hat on a shelf ehind the desk, the Fawkess perch stood empty, he was still crying his lament to the grounds. And a new portrait had joined the ranks of the dead headmasters and headmistresses of Hogwarts: Dumledore was slumering in a golden frame over the desk, his half-moon spectacle perched upon his crooked nose, looking peaceful and untrouled.
After glancing once at this portrait, Professor McGonagall made an odd movement as though steeling herself, then rounded the desk to look at Harry, her face taut and lined.
"Harry," she said, "I would like to know what you and Professor Dumledore were doing this evening when you left the school."
"I cant tell you that, Professor," said Harry. He had expected the question and had his answer ready. It had een here, in this very room, that Dumledore had told him that he was to confide the contents of their lessons to noody ut Ron and Hermione.
"Harry, it might e important," said Professor McGonagall.
"It is," said Harry, "very, ut he didnt want me to tell anyone."
Professor McGonagall glared at him. "Potter" - Harry registered the renewed use of his surname - "in the light of Professor Dumledores death, I think you must see that the situation has changed somewhat -"
"I dont think so," said Harry, shrugging. "Professor Dumledore never told me to stop following his orders if he died." But -
"Theres one thing you should know efore the Ministry gets here, though. Madam Rosmertas under the Imperius Curse, she was helping Malfoy and the Death Eaters, thats how the necklace and the poisoned mead -"
"Rosmerta?" said Professor McGonagall incredulously, ut efore she could go on, there was a knock on the door ehind them and Professors Sprout, Flitwick, and Slughorn traipsed into the room, followed y Hagrid, who was still weeping copiously, his huge frame tremling with grief.
"Snape!" ejaculated Slughorn, who looked the most shaken, pale and sweating. "Snape! I taught him! I thought I knew him!"
But efore any of them could respond to this, a sharp voice spoke from high on the wall: A sallow-faced wizard with a short lack fringe had just walked ack into his empty canvas. "Minerva, the Minister will e here within seconds, he has just Disapparated from the Ministry."
"Thank you, Everard," said Professor McGonagall, and she turned quickly to her teachers.
"I want to talk aout what happens to Hogwarts efore he gets here," she said quickly. "Personally, I am not convinced that the school should reopen next year. The death of the headmaster at the hands of one of our colleagues is a terrile stain upon Hogwartss history. It is horrile."
"I am sure Dumledore would have wanted the school to remain open," said Professor Sprout. "I feel that if a single pupil wants to come, then the school ought to remain open for that pupil."
"But will we have a single pupil after this?" said Slughorn, now daing his sweating row with a silken handkerchief. "Parents will want to keep their children at home and I cant say I lame them. Personally, I dont think were in more danger at Hogwarts than we are anywhere else, ut you cant expect mothers to think like that. Theyll want to keep their families together, its only natural."
"I agree," said Professor McGonagall. "And in any case, it is not true to say that Dumledore never envisaged a situation in which Hogwarts might close. When the Chamer of Secrets reopened he considered the closure of the school - and I must say that Professor Dumledores murder is more disturing to me than the idea of Slytherins monster living undetected in the owels of the castle. . . ."
"We must consult the governors," said Professor Flitwick in his squeaky little voice; he had a large ruise on his forehead ut seemed otherwise unscathed y his collapse in Snapes office. "We must follow the estalished procedures. A decision should not e made hastily."
"Hagrid, you havent said anything," said Professor McGonagall. "What are your views, ought Hogwarts to remain open?"
Hagrid, who had een weeping silently into his large, spotted handkerchief throughout this conversation, now raised puffy red eyes and croaked, "I dunno, Professor . . . thats fer the Heads of House an the headmistress ter decide ..."
"Professor Dumledore always valued your views," said Professor McGonagall kindly, "and so do I."
"Well, Im stayin," said Hagrid, fat tears still leaking out of the corners of his eyes and trickling down into his tangled eard. "Its me home, its in me home since I was thirteen. An if theres kids who wan me ter teach em, Ill
do it. But... I dunno ... Hogwarts without Dumledore .. ." He gulped and disappeared ehind his handkerchief once more, and there was silence.
"Very well," said Professor McGonagall, glancing out of the window at the grounds, checking to see whether the Minister was yet approaching, "then I must agree with Filius that the right thing to do is to consult the governors, who will make the final decision.
"Now, as to getting students home . . . there is an argument for doing it sooner rather than later. We could arrange for the Hogwarts Express to come tomorrow if necessary -"
"What aout Dumledores funeral?" said Harry, speaking at last.
"Well. . ." said Professor McGonagall, losing a little of her riskness as her voice shook. "I - I know that it was Dumledores wish to e laid to rest here, at Hogwarts -"
"Then thats whatll happen, isnt it?" said Harry fiercely.
"If the Ministry thinks it appropriate," said Professor McGonagall. "No other headmaster or headmistress has ever een -"
"No other headmaster or headmistress ever gave more to this school," growled Hagrid.
"Hogwarts should e Dumledores final resting place," said Professor Flitwick.
"Asolutely," said Professor Sprout.
"And in that case," said Harry, "you shouldnt send the students home until the jfunerals over. Theyll want to say -"
The last word caught in his throat, ut Professor Sprout completed the sentence for him. "Good-ye."
"Well said," squeaked Professor Flitwick. "Well said indeed! Our students should pay triute, it is fitting. We can arrange transport home afterward."
"Seconded," arked Professor Sprout. ]
"I suppose ... yes .. ." said Slughorn in a rather agitated voice, while Hagrid let out a strangled so of assent.
"Hes coming," said Professor McGonagall suddenly, gazing down into the grounds. "The Minister . . . and y the looks of it. hes rought a delegation . . ."
"Can I leave, Professor?" said Harry at once.
He had no desire at all to see, or e interrogated y, Rufus Scrimgeour tonight.
"You may," said Professor McGonagall. "And quickly."
She strode toward the door and held it open for him. He sped down the spiral staircase and off along the deserted corridor; he-had left his Invisiility Cloak at the top of the Astronomy Tower, ut it did not matter; there was noody in the corridors to see him pass, not even Filch, Mrs. Norris, or Peeves. He did not meet another soul until he turned into the passage leading to the Gryffindor common room.
"Is it true?" whispered the Fat Lady as he approached her. "It is really true? Dumledore - dead?"
"Yes," said Harry.
She let out a wail and, without waiting for the password, swung forward to admit him.
As Harry had suspected it would e, the common room was jam-packed. The room fell silent as he climed through the portrait hole. He saw Dean and Seamus sitting in a group neary: This meant that the dormitory must e empty, or nearly so. Without speaking to anyody, without making eye contact at all, Harry walked straight across the room and through the door to the oys dormitories.
As he had hoped, Ron was waiting for him, still fully dressed, sitting on his ed. Harry sat down on his own four-poster and for a moment, they simply stared at each other.
"Theyre talking aout closing the school," said Harry.
"Lupin said they would," said Ron.
There was a pause.
"So?" said Ron in a very low voice, as though he thought the furniture might e listening in. "Did you find one? Did you get it? A - a Horcrux?"
Harry shook his head. All that had taken place around that lack lake seemed like an old nightmare now; had it really happened, and only hours ago?
"You didnt get it?" said Ron, looking crestfallen. "It wasnt there?"
"No," said Harry. "Someone had already taken it and left a fake in its place."
"Already taken - ?"
Wordlessly, Harry pulled the fake locket from his pocket, opened it, and passed it to Ron. The full story could wait. ... It did not matter tonight. . .
nothing mattered except the end, the end of their pointless adventure, the end of Dumledores life. . . .
"R.A.B.," whispered Ron, "ut who was that?"
"Dunno," said Harry, lying ack on his ed fully clothed and staring lankly upwards. He felt no curiosity at all aout R.A.B.: He douted that he would ever feel curious again. As he lay there, he ecame aware suddenly that the grounds were silent. Fawkes had stopped singing. And he knew, without knowing how he knew it, that ilie phoenix had gone, had left Hogwarts for good, just as Dumledore had left the school, had left the world . . . had left Harry.
Chapter 30: The White Tom
All lessons were suspended, all examinations postponed. Some students were hurried away from Hogwarts y their parents over the next couple of days - the Patil twins were gone efore reakfast on the morning following Dumledores death and Zacharias Smith was escorted from the castle y his haughty-looking father. Seamus Finnigan, on the other hand, refused point-lank to accompany his mother home; they had a shouting match in the Entrance Hall which was resolved when she agreed that he could remain ehind for the funeral. She had difficulty in finding a ed in Hogsmeade, Seamus told Harry and Ron, for wizards and witches were pouring into the village, preparing to pay their last respects to Durnledore.
Some excitement was caused among the younger students, who had never seen it efore, when a powder-lue carriage the size of a house, pulled y a dozen giant winged palo-minos, came soaring out of the sky in the late afternoon efore the funeral and landed on the edge of the Forest. Harry watched from a window as a gigantic and handsome olive-skinned, lack-haired woman descended the carriage steps and threw herself into the waiting Hagrids arms. Meanwhile a delegation of Ministry officials, including the Minister for Magic himself, was eing accommodated within the castle. Harry was diligently avoiding contact with any of them; he
was sure that, sooner or later, he would e asked again to account for Dumledores last excursion from Hogwarts.
Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny were spending all of their time together. The eautiful weather seemed to mock them; Harry could imagine how it would have een if Durnledore had not died, and they had had this time together at the very end of the year, Ginnys examinations finished, the pressure of homework lifted ... and hour y hour, he put off saying the thing that he knew he must say, doing what he knew it was right to do, ecause it was too hard to forgo his est source of comfort.
They visited the hospital wing twice a day: Neville had een discharged, ut Bill remained under Madam Pomfreys care. His scars were as ad as ever; in truth, he now ore a distinct resemlance to Mad-Eye Moody, though thankfully with oth eyes and legs, ut in personality he seemed jusi the same as ever. All that appeared to have changed was that he now had a great liking for very rare steaks.
... so eet ees lucky e is marrying me, said Fleur happily, plumping up Bills pillows, ecause ze British overcook their meat, I ave always said this.
I suppose Im just going to have to accept that he really is going to marry her, sighed Ginny later that evening, as she, Harry, Ron and Hermione sat eside the open window of the Gryffindor common room, looking out over the twilit grounds,
Shes not that ad, said Harry. Ugly, though, he added hastily, as Ginny raised her eyerows, and she let out a reluctant giggle.
Well, I suppose if Mum can stand it, 1 can.
Anyone else we know died? Ron asked Hermione, who was perusing the Evening Prophet.
Hermione winced at the forced toughness in his voice.
No, she said reprovingly, folding up ihe newspaper. Theyre still looking for Snape, ut no sign ...
Of course there isnt, said Harry, who ecame angry every lime this suject cropped up. They wont find Snape till they find Voldemort, and seeing as theyve never managed to do that in all this time ...
Im going to go to ed, yawned Ginny. I havent een sleeping thai well since ... well ... I could do with some sleep.
She kissed Harry (Ron looked away pointedly), waved al the other two and departed for the girls dormitories. The moment the door had closed ehind her, Hermione leaned forwards towards Harry with a most Hermione-ish look on her face.
Harry, I found something ou( this morning, in the lirary ..,
R.A.B.? said Harry, silling up straight.
He did not feel the way he had so often felt efore, excited, curious, urning to get to the ottom of a mystery; he simply knew that the task of discovering the truth aout the real Horcrux had to e completed efore he could move a little further along the dark and winding path stretching ahead of him, the path that he and Dumledore had set out upon together, and which he now knew he would have to journey alone. There might still e as many as four Horcruxes out there somewhere and each would need to e found and elim-inated efore there was even a possiility that Voldemort could e killed. He kept reciting their names to himself, as though y listing them he could ring them within reach: the locket .., the cup ... the snake ... something of Gryffindors or Ravenclaws ... the locket ... the cup ... the snake ... something of Gryffindors or Ravenclaws ...
This mantra seemed to pulse through Harrys mind as he
fell asleep at night, and his dreams were thick with cups, lockets and mysterious ojects that he could not quite reach, though Dumledore helpfully offered Harry a rope ladder that turned to snakes the moment he egan to clim ...
He had shown Hermione the note inside the locket the morning after Dumledores death, and although she had not immediately recognised the initials as elonging to some oscure wizard aout whom she had een reading, she had since een rushing off to the lirary a little more often than was strictly necessary for someody who had no homework to do.
No, she said sadly, Ive een trying, Harry, ut I havent found anything ... there are a couple of reasonaly well-known wizards with those initials - Rosalind Antigone Bungs ... Rupert "Axeanger" Brookstanton ... ut they dont seem to fit at all. Judging y that note, the person who stole the Horcrux knew Voldemort, and I cant find a shred of evidence that Bungs or Axeanger ever had anything to do with him ... no, actually, its aout ... well, Snape.
She looked nervous even saying the name again.
What aout him? asked Harry heavily, slumping ack in his chair.
Well, its just that I was sort of right aout the Half-Blood Prince usiness, she said tentatively.
Dyou have to ru it in, Hermione? How tTyou think 1 feel aout that now?
No - no - Harry, I didnt mean that! she said hastily, look-ing around to check that they were not eing overheard. Its just that 1 was right aout Eileen Prince once owning the ook. You see ... she was Snapes mother!
T thought she wasnt much of a looker, said Ron. Hermione ignored him.
1 was going through ihe rest of the old Prophets and there
was a tiny announcement aout Eileen Prince marrying a man called Toias Snape, and then later an announcement saying that shed given irth to a -
- murderer, spat Harry.
Well ... yes, said Hermione. So ... 1 was sort of right. Snape must have een proud of eing "half a Prince", you see? Toias Snape was a Muggie from what it said in the Prophet
Yeah, that fits, said Harry. Hed play up the pure-lood side so he could get in with Lucius Malfoy and the rest of them ... hes just like Voldemort. Pure-lood mother, Muggie father ... ashamed of his parentage, trying to make himself feared using the Dark Arts, gave himself an impressive new name - Lard Voldemort - the Half-Blood Prince - how could Dumledore have missed -?
He roke off, looking out of the window. He could not stop himself dwelling upon Dumledores inexcusale trust in Snape ... ut as Hermione had just inadvertently reminded him, he, Harry, had een taken in just the same ... in spite of the increasing nastiness of those scriled spells, he had refused to elieve ill of the oy who had een so clever, who had helped him so much ...
Helped him ... it was an almost unendurale thought, now ...
I still dont get why he didnt turn you in for using that ook, said Ron. He mustve known where you were getting it ali from.
He knew, said Harry itterly. He knew when I used Secfumsempra. He didnt really need Legilimency ... he might even have known efore then, with Slughom talking aout how rilliant I was at Potions ... shouldnt have left his old ook in the ottom of that cupoard, should he?
But why didnt he turn you in?
I dont ihink he wanted to associate himself with that ook, said Hermione. I dont think Dumledore would have liked it very much if hed known. And even if Snape pre-tended it hadnt een his, Slughom would have recognised his writing at once. Anyway, the ook was left in Snapes old classroom, and Ill et Dumledore knew his mother was called "Prince".
T shouldve shown the ook to Dumledore, said Harry. All that lime he was showing me how Voldemort was evil even when he was at school, and 1 had proof Snape was, too -
"Evil" is a strong word, said Hermione quietly.
You were the one who kept telling me the ook was dangerous!
Im trying to say, Harry, that youre pulling too much lame on yourself. 1 thought the Prince seemed to have a nasty sense of humour, ut I would never have guessed he was a potential killer ...
None of us couldve guessed Snape would ... you know, said Ron.
Silence fell etween them, each of them lost in their own thoughts, ut Harry was sure that they, like him, were think-ing aout the following morning, when Dumledores ody would e laid to rest. Harry had never attended a funeral efore; there had een no ody to ury when Sirius had died. He did not know what to expect and was a little worried aout what he might see, aout how he would feel. He won-dered whether Dumledores death would e more real to him once the funeral was over. Though he had moments when the horrile fact of it threatened to overwhelm him, there were lank stretches of numness where, despite the fact that noody was talking aout anything else in the whole castle, he still found it difficult 10 elieve that Dumledore
had really gone. Admittedly he had not, as he had with Sirius, looked desperately for some kind of loophole, some way that Dumledore would come ack ... he felt in his pocket for the cold chain of the fake Horcrux, which he now carried with him everywhere, not as a talisman, ut as a reminder of what it had cost and what remained still to do.
Harry rose early to pack the next day; the Hogwarts Express would e leaving an hour after the funeral. Down-stairs he found the mood in the Great Hall sudued. Every-ody was wearing their dress roes and no one
seemed very hungry. Professor McGonagall had left the thronelike chair in the middle of the staff tale empty. Hagrids chair was des-erted too: Harry thought thai perhaps he had not een ale to face reakfast; ut Snapes place had een unceremoniously filled y Rufus Scrimgeour. Harry avoided his yellowish eyes as they scanned the Hall; Harry had the uncomfortale feeling that Scrimgeour was looking for him. Among Scrimgeours entourage Harry spotted the red hair and horn-rimmed glasses of Percy Weasley. Ron gave no sign that he was aware of Percy, apart from staing pieces of kipper with unwonted venom.
Over at the Slytherin tale Crae and Goyle were mutter-
ing together. Hulking oys though they were, they looked
oddly lonely without the tall, pale figure of Malfoy etween
them, ossing them around. Harry had not spared Malfoy
much thought. His animosity was all for Snape, ut he had
not forgotten the fear in Malfoys voice on that Tower top, nor
the fact that he had lowered his wand efore the other Death
Eaters arrived. Harry did not elieve that Malfoy would have
killed Dumledore. He despised Malfoy still for his infatu-
ation with the Dark Arts, ut now the tiniest drop of pity
mingled with his dislike. Where, Harry wondered, was Malfoy
now, and what was Voldemort making him do under threat of
killing him and his parents? ? •••>.
Harrys thoughts were interrupted y a nudge in the ris from Ginny. Professor McGonagall had risen to her feet and the mournful hum in the Hall died away at once.
It is nearly time, she said. Please follow your Heads of House out into the grounds. Gryffindors, after me.
They filed out from ehind their enches in near silence. Harry glimpsed Slughorn at the head of the Slytherin column, wearing magnificent long emerald-green roes emroidered with silver. He had never seen Professor Sprout, Head of the Hufflepuffs, looking so clean; there was not a single patch on her hat, and when they reached the Entrance Hall, they found Madam Pince standing eside Filch, she in a thick lack veil that fell to her knees, he in an ancient lack suit and tie reek-ing of mothails.
They were heading, as Harry saw when he stepped out on to the stone steps from the front doors, towards the lake. The warmth of the sun caressed his face as they followed Professor McGonagall in silence to the place where hundreds of chairs had een set out in rows. An aisle ran down the centre of them: there was a marle tale standing at the front, all chairs facing it. It was the most eautiful summers day.
An extraordinary assortment of people had already settled into half of the chairs: shay and smart, old and young. Most Harry did not recognise, ut there were a few that he did, including memers of the Order of the Phoenix: Kingsley Shackleolt, Mad-Eye Moody, Tonks, her hair miraculously returned to vividest pink, Remus Lupin, with whom she seemed to e holding hands, Mr and Mrs Weasley, Bill sup-ported y Fleur and followed y Fred and George, who were wearing jackets of lack dragonskin. Then there was Madame Maxime, who took up two-and-a-half chairs on her own,
Tom, the landlord of the Leaky Cauldron, Araella Figg, Harrys Squi neighour, the hairy ass player from the
wizardmg group the Weird isters, hrnie Frang, dnver ol the Knight Bus, Madam Malkin, of the roe shop in Diagon Alley, and some people whom Harry merely knew y sight, such as the arman of the Hogs Head and the witch who pushed the trolley on the Hogwarts Express. The castle ghosts were there too, arely visile in the right sunlight, discernile only when they moved, shimmering insustantially in the gleaming air.
Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny filed into seats at the end of a row eside the lake. People were whispering to each other; it sounded like a reeze in the grass, ut the irdsong was louder y far. The crowd continued to swell; with a great rush of affection for oth of them, Harry saw Neville eing helped into a seat y Luna. They alone of all the DA had responded to Hermiones summons the night that Dumledore had died, and Harry knew why: they were the ones who had missed the DA most ... proaly the ones who had checked their coins regularly in the hope that there would e another meeting ...
Cornelius Fudge walked past them towards the front rows, his expression miserale, twirling his green owler hat as usual; Harry next recognised Rita Skeeter, who, he was infuri-ated to see, had a noteook clutched in her red-takmed hand; and then, with a worse jolt of fury, Dolores Umridge, an unconvincing expression of grief upon her toadlike face, a lack velvet ow set atop her iron-coloured curls. At the sight of the centaur Firenze, who was
standing like a sentinel near the waters edge, she gave a start and scurried hastily into a seat a good distance away.
The staff were seated at last. Harry could see Scrimgeour looking grave and dignified in the front row with Professor McGonagall. He wondered whether Scrimgeour or any of these important people were really sorry that Dumledore wasand he forgot his dislike of the Ministry in looking around for the source of it. He was not the only one: many heads were turning, searching, a little alarmed.
In there, whispered Ginny in Harrys ear.
And he saw them in the clear green sunlit water, inches elow the surface, reminding him horrily of the Inferi; a chorus of merpeople singing in a strange language he did not understand, their pallid faces rippling, their purplish hair flowing all around them. The music made the hair on Harrys neck stand up and yet it was not unpleasant. It spoke very clearly of loss and of despair. As he looked down into the wild faces of the singers he had the feeling that they, at least, were sorry for Dumledores passing. Then Ginny nudged him again and he looked round.
Hagrid was walking slowly up the aisle etween the chairs. He was crying quite silently, his face gleaming with tears, and in his arms, wrapped in purple velvet spangled with golden stars, was what Harry knew to e Dumledores ody. A sharp pain rose in Harrys throat at this sight: for a moment, the strange music and the knowledge that Dumledores ody was so close seemed to take all warmth from the day. Ron looked white and
shocked. Tears were falling thick and fast into oth Ginny and Hermiones laps.
They could not see clearly what was happening at the front. Hagrid seemed to have placed the ody carefully upon the tale. Now he retreated down the aisle, lowing his nose with loud trumpeting noises that drew scandalised looks from some, including, Harry saw, Dolores Umridge ... ut Harry knew that Dumledore would not have cared. He tried to make a friendly gesture to Hagrid as he passed, ut Hagrids eyes were so swollen it was a wonder he could see where he was going. Harry glanced at the ack row to which Hagrid
was heading and realised what was guiding him, for there, dressed in a jacket and trousers each the size of a small mar-quee, was the giant Grawp, his great ugly oulder-like head owed, docile, almost human. Hagrid sat down next to his half-rother and Grawp palled Hagrid hard on the head, so that his chair legs sank into the ground. Harry had a wonder-ful momentary urge to laugh. But then the music stopped and he turned to face the front again.
A little tufty-haired man in plain lack roes had got to his feet and stood now in front of Dumledores ody. Harry could not hear what he was saying. Odd words floated ack to them over the hundreds of eads. Noility of spirit ... intel-lectual contriution ... greatness of heart ... it did not mean very much. It had little to do with Dumledore as Harry had known him. He suddenly rememered Dumledores idea of a few words:
nitwit, oddment, luer and tweak 1, and again, had to suppress a grin ... what was the matter with him?
There was a soft splashing noise to his left and he saw that the merpeople had roken the surface to listen, too. He rememered Dumledore crouching at the waters edge two years ago, very close to where Harry now sat, and conversing in Mermish with the Merchieftainess. Harry wondered where Dumledore had learned Mermish. There was so much he had never asked him, so much he should have said ...
And then, without warning, it swept over him, the dreadful truth, more completely and undenialy than it had until now. Dumledore was dead, gone ... he clutched the cold locket in his hand so tightly that it hurt, ut he could not prevent hot tears spilling from his eyes: he looked away from Ginny and the others and stared out over the lake, towards the Forest, as the little man in lack droned on ... there was movement among the trees. The centaurs had come to pay their respects, too. They did not move into the open ut Harry saw them
standing quite still, half-hidden in shadow, watching the wiz-ards, their ows hanging at their sides. And Harry remem-ered his first nightmarish trip into the Forest, the first time he had ever encountered the thing that was then Voldemort, and how he had faced him, and how he and Dumledore had discussed fighting a losing attle not long thereafter. It was important, Dumledore said, to fight, and fight again, and keep fighting, for only then could evil e kept at ay, though never quite eradicated ...
And Harry saw very clearly as e sal there under the hot sun ow people who cared aout him had stood in front of him one y one, his mother, his father, his godfather, and finally Dumledore, all determined to protect him; ut now that was over. He could not let anyody else stand etween him and Voldemort; he must aandon for ever the illusion he ought to have lost at the age of one: that the shelter of a parents arms meant that nothing could hurt him. There was no waking from his nightmare, no comforting whisper in the dark that he was safe really, that it was all in his imagination; the last and greatest of his proteclors had died and he was more alone than he had ever een efore.
The little man in lack had stopped speaking at last and resumed his seat. Harry waited for someody else to get to their feet; he expected speeches, proaly from the Minister, ut noody moved.
Then several people screamed. Bright, white flames had erupted around Dumledores ody and the tale upon which it lay: higher and higher they rose, oscuring the ody. White smoke spiralled into the air and made strange shapes: Harry thought, for one heart-stopping moment, that he saw a phoenix fly joyfully into the lue, ut next second the fire had vanished. In its place was a white marle tom, encasing Dumledores ody and the tale on which he had rested.
There were a few more cries of shock as a shower of arrows soared through the air, ut they fell far short of the crowd. It was, Harry knew, the centaurs triute: he saw them turn tail and disappear ack into the cool trees.
Likewise the mer-people sank slowly ack into the green water and were lost from view.
Harry looked ai Ginny, Ron and Hermione: Rons face was screwed up as though the sunlight was linding him. Hermiones face was glazed with tears, ut Ginny was no longer crying. She met Harrys gaze with the same hard, lazing look that he had seen when she had hugged him after winning the Quidditch Cup in his asence, and he knew that at that moment they understood each other perfectly, and that when he told her what he was going to do now, she would not say Be careful, or Dont do it, ut accept his decision, ecause she would not have expected anything less of him. And so he steeled himself to say what he had known he must say ever since Dumledore had died.
Ginny, listen ... he said very quietly, as the uzz of con-versation grew louder around them and people egan to get to their feet. I cant e involved with you any more. Weve got to stop seeing each other. We cant e together.
She said, with an oddly twisted smile, Its for some stupid, nole reason, isnt it?
Its een like ... like something out of someone elses life, these last few weeks with you, said Harry. But 1 cant ... we cant ... Ive got things to do alone now.
She did not cry, she simply looked at him,
Voldemort uses people his enemies are close to. Hes already used you as ait once, and that was just ecause youre my est friends sister. Think how much danger youll e in if we keep this up. Hell know, hell find out. Hell try and get to me through you.
What if I dont care? said Ginny fiercely.
I care, said Harry. How do you think Id feel if this was your funeral ... and it was my fault ...
She looked away from him, over the lake.
T never really gave up on you, she said. Not really. I always hoped ... Hermione told me to get on with life, maye go out with some other people, relax a it around you, ecause I never used to e ale to talk if you were in the room, rememer? And she thought you might take a it more notice if I was a it more - myself.
Smart girl, that Hermione, said Harry, trying to smile. I just wish Id asked you sooner. We coukTve had ages ... months ... years maye ...
But youve een too usy saving the wizarding world, said Ginny, half-laughing. Well ... I cant say Im surprised. I knew this would happen in the end. I knew you wouldnt e happy unless you were hunting Voldemort. Maye thats why I like you so much.
Harry could not ear to hear these things, nor did he think his resolution would hold if he remained sitting eside her. Ron, he saw, was now holding Hermione and stroking her hair while she soed into his shoulder, tears dripping from the end of his own long nose. With a miserale gesture, Harry got up, turned his ack on Ginny and on Dumledores tom and walked away around the lake. Moving felt much more earale than sitting still: just as setting out as soon as possile to track down the Horcruxes and kill Voldemort would feel etter than waiting to do it ...
Harry!
He turned. Rufus Scrimgeour was limping rapidly towards him around the ank, leaning on his walking stick.
Ive een hoping to have a word ... do you mind if I walk a little way with you?
No, said Harry indifferently, and set off again.
Harry, this was a dreadful tragedy, said Scrimgeour quietly, I cannot tell you how appalled I was to hear of it. Dumledore was a very great wizard. We had our disagree-ments, as you know, ut no one knows etter than 1 -
•What do you want? asked Harry flatly.
Scrimgeour looked annoyed ut, as efore, hastily modified his expression to one of sorrowful understanding.
You are, of course, devastated, he said. I know that you were very close to Dumledore. I think you may have een his favourite ever pupil. The ond etween the two of you -
What do you want? Harry repeated, coming to a halt.
Scrimgeour stopped too, leaned on his stick and stared at Harry, his expression shrewd now.
The word is that you were with him when he left the school the night that he died.
Whose word? said Harry.
Someody Stupefied a Death Eater on top of the Tower after Dumledore died. There were also two roomsticks up there. The Ministry can add two and two, Harry.
Glad to hear it, said Harry. Well, where I went with Dumledore and what we did is my usiness. He didnt want people to know.
Such loyalty is admirale, of course, said Scrimgeour, who seemed to e restraining his irritation with difficulty, ul Dumledore is gone, Harry. Hes gone.
He will only e gone from the school when none here are loyal to him, said Harry, smiling in spite of himself.
My dear oy ... even Dumledore cannot return from the-
I am not saying he can. You wouldnt understand. But Ive got nothing to tell you.
Scrimgeour hesitated, then said, in what was evidently
supposed to e a tone of delicacy, The Ministry can offer you all sorts of protection, you know, Harry. I would e delighted to place a couple of my Aurors at your service -
Harry laughed.
Voldemort wants to kill me himself and Aurors wont stop him. So thanks for the offer, ut no thanks.
So, said Scrimgeour, his voice cold now, the request 1 made of you at Christmas -
What request? Oh yeah ... the one where I tell the world what a great jo youre doing in exchange for --
- for raising everyones morale! snapped Scrimgeour.
Harry considered him for a moment.
Released Stan Shunpike yet?
Scrimgeour turned a nasty purple colour highly remin-iscent of Uncle Vernon.
1 see you are -
Dumledores man through and through, said Harry. Thats right.
Scrimgeour glared at him for another moment, then turned and limped away without another word. Harry could see Percy and the rest of the Ministry delegation waiting for him, casting nervous glances at the soing Hagrid and Grawp, who were still in their seats. Ron and Hermione were hurry-ing towards Harry, passing Scrimgeour going in the opposite direction; Harry turned and walked slowly on, waiting for them to catch up, which they finally did in the shade of a eech tree under which they had sat in happier times.
"What did Scrimgeour want? Hermione whispered.
Same as he wanted at Christmas, shrugged Harry. Wanted me to give him inside information on Dumledore and e the Ministrys new poster oy.
Ron seemed to struggle with himself for a moment, then he said loudly to Hermione, Look, let me go ack and hit Percy!
No, she said firmly, graing his arm.
Itll make me feel etter!
Harry laughed. Even Hermione grinned a little, though her smile faded as she looked up at the castle.
I cant ear the idea that we might never come ack. she said softly. How can Hogwarts close?
Maye it wont, said Ron. Were not in any more danger here than we are at home, are we? Everywheres the same now. Id even say Hogwarts is safer, there are more wizards inside to defend the place. What dyou reckon, Harry?
Im not coming ack even if it does reopen, said Harry.
Ron gaped at him, ut Hermione said sadly, I knew you were going to say that. But then what will you do? 1
Im going ack to the Dursleys once more, ecause Dumledore wanted me to, said Harry. But itll e a short visit, and then Ill e gone for good.
But where will you go if you dont come ack to school?
I thought I might go ack to Godrics Hollow, Harry mut-tered. He had had the idea in his head ever since the night of Dumledores death. For me, it started there, all of it. Ive just got a feeling I need to go there. And I can visit my parents graves, Id like that.
And then what? said Ron.
Then Ive got to track down the rest of the Horcruxes, havent I? said Harry, his eyes upon Dumledores white tom, reflected in the water on the other side of the lake. Thats what he wanted me to do, thats why he told me all aout them. If Dumledore was right - and Im sure he was -there are still four of them out there. Ive got to find them and destroy them and then Ive got to go after the seventh it of Voldemorts soul, the it thats still in his ody, and Im the one whos going to kill him. And if I meet Severus Snape
along the way, he added, so much trie etter tor me, so mucn the worse for him.
There was a long silence. The crowd had almost dispersed now, the stragglers giving the monumental figure of Grawp a wide erth as he cuddled Hagrid, whose howls of grief were still echoing across the water.
Well e there, Harry, said Ron.
What?
At your aunt and uncles house, said Ron. And then well go with you, wherever youre going.
No - said Harry quickly; he had not counted on this, he had meant them to understand that he was undertaking this most dangerous journey alone.
You said to us once efore, said Hermione quietly, that there was time to turn ack if we wanted to. Weve had time, havent we?
Were with you whatever happens, said Ron. But, mate, youre going to have to come round my mum and dads house efore we do anything else, even Godrics Hollow.
Why?
Bill and Fleurs wedding, rememer?
Harry looked at him, startled; the idea that anything as normal as a wedding could still exist seemed incredile and yet wonderful.
Yeah, we shouldnt miss that, he said finally.
His hand closed automatically around the fake Horcrux, ut in spite of everything, in spite of the dark and twisting path he saw stretching ahead for himself, in spite of the final meet-ing with Voldemort he knew must come, whether in a month, in a year, or in ten, he felt his heart lift at the thought
that there was still one last golden day of peace left to enjoy with Ron and Hermione.
Chapter One The Dark Lord Ascending
The two men appeared out of nowhere, a few yards apart in the narrow, moonlit lane. For a second they stood quite still, wands directed at each others chests; then, recognizing each other, they stowed their wands eneath their cloaks and started walking riskly in the same direction. "News?" asked the taller of the two. "The est," replied Severus Snape. The lane was ordered on the left y wild, low-growing ramles, on the right y a high, neatly manicured hedge. The mens long cloaks flapped around their ankles as they marched. "Thought I might e late," said Yaxley, his lunt features sliding in and out of sight as the ranches of overhanging trees roke the moonlight. "It was a little trickier than I expected. But I hope he will e satisfied. You sound confident that your reception will e good?" Snape nodded, ut did not elaorate. They turned right, into a wide driveway that led off the lane. The high hedge curved into them, running off into the distance eyond the pair of imposing wrought-iron gates arring the men’s way. Neither of them roke step: In silence oth raised their left arms in a kind of salute and passed straight through, as though the dark metal was smoke.
The yew hedges muffled the sound of the men’s footsteps. There was a rustle somewhere to their right: Yaxley drew his wand again pointing it over his companion’s head, ut the source of the noise proved to e nothing more than a pure-white peacock, strutting majestically along the top of the hedge.
"He always did himself well, Lucius. Peacocks ..." Yaxley thrust his wand ack under his cloak with a snort.
A handsome manor house grew out of the darkness at the end of the straight drive, lights glinting in the diamond paned downstairs windows. Somewhere in the dark garden eyond the hedge a fountain was playing. Gravel crackled eneath their feet as Snape and Yaxley sped toward the front door, which swung inward at their approach, though noody had visily opened it.
The hallway was large, dimly lit, and sumptuously decorated, with a magnificent carpet covering most of the stone floor. The eyes of the pale-faced portraits on the wall followed Snape and Yaxley as they strode past. The two men halted at a heavy wooden door leading into the next room, hesitated for the space of a hearteat, then Snape turned the ronze handle.
The drawing room was full of silent people, sitting at a long and ornate tale. The room’s usual furniture had een pushed carelessly up against the walls. Illumination came from a roaring fire eneath a handsome marle mantelpiece surmounted y a gilded mirror. Snape and Yaxley lingered for a moment on the threshold. As their eyes grew accustomed to the lack of light, they were drawn upward to the strangest feature of the scene: an apparently unconscious human figure hanging upside down over the tale, revolving slowly as if suspended y an invisile rope, and reflected in the mirror and in the are, polished surface of the tale elow. None of the people seated underneath this
singular sight were looking at it except for a pale young man sitting almost directly elow it. He seemed unale to prevent himself from glancing upward every minute or so.
"Yaxley. Snape," said a high, clear voice from the head of the tale. "You are very nearly late."
The speaker was seated directly in front of the fireplace, so that it was difficult, at first, for the new arrivals to make out more than his silhouette. As they drew nearer, however, his face shone through the gloom, hairless, snakelike, with slits for nostrils and gleaming red eyes whose pupils were vertical. He was so pale that he seemed to emit a pearly glow.
"Severus, here," said Voldemort, indicating the seat on his immediate right. "Yaxley - eside Dolohov."
The two men took their allotted places. Most of the eyes around the tale followed Snape, and it was to him that Voldemort spoke first.
"So?"
"My Lord, the Order of the Phoenix intends to move Harry Potter from his current place of safety on Saturday next, at nightfall."
The interest around the tale sharpened palpaly: Some stiffened, others fidgeted, all gazing at Snape and Voldemort.
"Saturday ... at nightfall," repeated Voldemort. His red eyes fastened upon Snape’s lack ones with such intensity that some of the watchers looked away, apparently fearful that they themselves would e scorched y the ferocity of the gaze. Snape, however, looked calmly ack into Voldemort’s face and, after a moment or two, Voldemort’s lipless mouth curved into something like a smile.
"Good. Very good. And this information comes -"
" - from the source we discussed," said Snape.
"My Lord."
Yaxley had leaned forward to look down the long tale at Voldemort and Snape. All faces turned to him.
"My Lord, I have heard differently."
Yaxley waited, ut Voldemort did not speak, so he went on, "Dawlish, the Auror, let slip that Potter will not e moved until the thirtieth, the night efore the oy turns seventeen."
Snape was smiling.
"My source told me that there are plans to lay a false trail; this must e it. No dout a Confundus Charm has een placed upon Dawlish. It would not e the first time; he is known to e susceptile."
"I assure you, my Lord, Dawlish seemed quite certain," said Yaxley.
"If he has een Confunded, naturally he is certain," said Snape. "I assure you, Yaxley, the Auror Office will play no further part in the protection of Harry Potter. The Order elieves that we have infiltrated the Ministry."
"The Order’s got one thing right, then, eh?" said a squat man sitting a short distance from Yaxley; he gave a wheezy giggle that was echoed here and there along the tale.
Voldemort did not laugh. His gaze had wandered upward to the ody revolving slowly overhead, and he seemed to e lost in thought.
"My Lord," Yaxley went on, "Dawlish elieves an entire party of Aurors will e used to transfer the oy -"
Voldemort held up a large white hand, and Yaxley susided at once, watching resentfully as Voldemort turned ack to Snape.
"Where are they going to hide the oy next?"
"At the home of one of the Order," said Snape. "The place, according to the source, has een given every protection that the Order and Ministry together could provide. I think that there is little chance of taking him once he is there, my Lord, unless, of course, the Ministry has fallen efore next Saturday, which might give us the opportunity to discover and undo enough of the enchantments to reak through the rest."
"Well, Yaxley?" Voldemort called down the tale, the firelight glinting strangely in his red eyes. "Will the Ministry have fallen y next Saturday?"
Once again, all heads turned. Yaxley squared his shoulders.
"My Lord, I have good news on that score. I have - with difficulty, and after great effort - succeeded in placing an Imperius Curse upon Pius Thicknesse."
Many of those sitting around Yaxley looked impressed; his neighor, Dolohov, a man with a long, twisted face, clapped him on the ack.
"It is a start," said Voldemort. "But Thicknesse is only one man. Scrimgeour must e surrounded y our people efore I act. One failed attempt on the Minister’s life will set me ack a long way."
"Yes - my Lord, that is true - ut you know, as Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Thicknesse has regular contact not only with the Minister himself, ut also with the Heads of all the other Ministry departments. It will, I think, e easy now that we have such a high-ranking official under our control, to sujugate the others, and then they can all work together to ring Scrimgeour down."
"As long as our friend Thicknesse is not discovered efore he has converted the rest," said Voldemort. "At any rate, it remains unlikely that the Ministry will e mine efore next Saturday. If we cannot touch the oy at his destination, then it must e done while he travels."
"We are at an advantage there, my Lord," said Yaxley, who seemed determined to receive some portion of approval. "We now have several people planted within the Department of Magical Transport. If Potter Apparates or uses the Floo Network, we shall know immediately."
"He will not do either," said Snape. "The Order is eschewing any form of transport that is controlled or regulated y the Ministry; they mistrust everything to do with the place."
"All the etter," said Voldemort. "He will have to move in the open. Easier to take, y far."
Again, Voldemort looked up at the slowly revolving ody as he went on, "I shall attend to the oy in person. There have een too many mistakes where Harry Potter is concerned. Some of them have een my own. That Potter lives is due more to my errors than to his triumphs."
The company around the tale watched Voldemort apprehensively, each of them, y his or her expression, afraid that they might e lamed for Harry Potter’s continued existence. Voldemort, however, seemed to e speaking more to himself than to any of them, still addressing the unconscious ody aove him.
"I have een careless, and so have een thwarted y luck and chance, those wreckers of all ut the est-laid plans. But I know etter now. I understand those things that I did not understand efore. I must e the one to kill Harry Potter, and I shall e."
At these words, seemingly in response to them, a sudden wail sounded, a terrile, drawn-out cry of misery and pain. Many of those at the tale looked downward, startled, for the sound had seemed to issue from elow their feet.
"Wormtail," said Voldemort, with no change in his quiet, thoughtful tone, and without removing his eyes from the revolving ody aove, "have I not spoken to you aout keeping our prisoner quiet?"
"Yes, m-my Lord," gasped a small man halfway down the tale, who had een sitting so low in his chair that it appeared, at first glance, to e unoccupied. Now he scramled from his seat and scurried from the room, leaving nothing ehind him ut a curious gleam of silver.
"As I was saying," continued Voldemort, looking again at the tense faces of his followers, "I understand etter now. I shall need, for instance, to orrow a wand from one of you efore I go to kill Potter."
The faces around him displayed nothing ut shock; he might have announced that he wanted to orrow one of their arms.
"No volunteers?" said Voldemort. "Let’s see ... Lucius, I see no reason for you to have a wand anymore."
Lucius Malfoy looked up. His skin appeared yellowish and waxy in the firelight, and his eyes were sunken and shadowed. When he spoke, his voice was hoarse.
"My Lord?"
"Your wand, Lucius. I require your wand."
"I ..."
Malfoy glanced sideways at his wife. She was staring straight ahead, quite as pale as he was, her long londe hair hanging down her ack, ut eneath the tale her slim fingers closed riefly on his wrist. At her touch, Malfoy put his hand into his roes, withdrew a wand, and passed it along to Voldemort, who held it up in front of his red eyes, examining it closely.
"What is it?"
"Elm, my Lord," whispered Malfoy.
"And the core?"
"Dragon - dragon heartstring."
"Good," said Voldemort. He drew out his wand and compared the lengths. Lucius Malfoy made an involuntary movement; for a fraction of a second, it seemed he expected to receive Voldemort’s wand in exchange for his own. The gesture was not missed y Voldemort, whose eyes widened maliciously.
"Give you my wand, Lucius? My wand?"
Some of the throng sniggered.
"I have given you your lierty, Lucius, is that not enough for you? But I have noticed that you and your family seem less than happy of late ... What is it aout my presence in your home that displaces you, Lucius?"
"Nothing - nothing, my Lord!"
"Such lies Lucius ... "
The soft voice seemed to hiss on even after the cruel mouth had stopped moving. One or two of the wizards arely repressed a shudder as the hissing grew louder; something heavy could e heard sliding across the floor eneath the tale.
The huge snake emerged to clim slowly up Voldemort’s chair. It rose, seemingly endlessly, and came to rest across Voldemort’s shoulders: its neck the thickness of a man’s thigh; its eyes, with their vertical slits for pupils, unlinking. Voldemort stroked the creature asently with long thin fingers, still looking at Lucius Malfoy.
"Why do the Malfoys look so unhappy with their lot? Is my return, my rise to power, not the very thing they professed to desire for so many years?"
"Of course, my Lord," said Lucius Malfoy. His hand shook as he wiped sweat from his upper lip. "We did desire it - we do."
To Malfoy’s left, his wife made an odd, stiff nod, her eyes averted from Voldemort and the snake. To his right, his son, Draco, who had een gazing up at the inert ody overhead, glanced quickly at Voldemort and away again, terrified to make eye contact.
"My Lord," said a dark woman halfway down the tale, her voice constricted with emotion, "it is an honor to have you here, in our family’s house. There can e no higher pleasure."
She sat eside her sister, as unlike her in looks, with her dark hair and heavily lidded eyes, as she was in earing and demeanor; where Narcissa sat rigid and impassive, Bellatrix leaned toward Voldemort, for mere words could not demonstrate her longing for closeness.
"No higher pleasure," repeated Voldemort, his head tilted a little to one side as he considered Bellatrix. "That means a great deal, Bellatrix, from you."
Her face flooded with color; her eyes welled with tears of delight.
"My Lord knows I speak nothing ut the truth!"
"No higher pleasure ... even compared with the happy event that, I hear, has taken place in your family this week?"
She stared at him, her lips parted, evidently confused.
"I don’t know what you mean, my Lord."
"I’m talking aout your niece, Bellatrix. And yours, Lucius and Narcissa. She has just married the werewolf, Remus Lupin. You must e so proud."
There was an eruption of jeering laughter from around the tale. Many leaned forward to exchange gleeful looks; a few thumped the tale with their fists. The giant snake, disliking the disturance, opened its mouth wide and hissed angrily, ut the Death Eaters did not hear it, so juilant were they at Bellatrix and the Malfoys’ humiliation. Bellatrix’s face, so recently flushed wit happiness, had turned an ugly, lotchy red.
"She is no niece of ours, my Lord," she cried over the outpouring of mirth. "We - Narcissa and I - have never set eyes on our sister since she married the Mudlood. This rat has nothing to do with either of us, nor any east she marries."
"What say you, Draco?" asked Voldemort, and though his voice was quiet, it carried clearly through the catcalls and jeers. "Will you aysit the cus?"
The hilarity mounted; Draco Malfoy looked in terror at his father, who was staring down into his own lap, then caught his mother’s eye. She shook her head almost imperceptily, then resumed her own deadpan stare at the opposite wall.
"Enough," said Voldemort, stroking the angry snake. "Enough."
And the laughter died at once.
"Many of our oldest family trees ecome a little diseased over time," he said as Bellatrix gazed at him, reathless and imploring, "You must prune yours, must you not, to keep it healthy? Cut away those parts that threaten the health of the rest."
"Yes, my Lord," whispered Bellatrix, and her eyes swam with tears of gratitude again. "At the first chance!"
"You shall have it," said Voldemort. "And in your family, so in the world ... we shall cut away the canker that infects us until only those of the true lood remain ..."
Voldemort raised Lucius Malfoy’s wand, pointed it directly at the slowly revolving figure suspended over the tale, and gave it a tiny flick. The figure came to life with a groan and egan to struggle against invisile onds.
"Do you recognize our guest, Severus?" asked Voldemort.
Snape raised his eyes to the upside down face. All of the Death Eaters were looking up at the captive now, as though they had een given permission to show curiosity. As she revolved to face the firelight, the woman said in a cracked and terrified voice, "Severus! Help me!"
"Ah, yes," said Snape as the prisoner turned slowly away again.
"And you, Draco?" asked Voldemort, stroking the snake’s snout with his wand-free hand. Draco shook his head jerkily. Now that the woman had woken, he seemed unale to look at her anymore.
"But you would not have taken her classes," said Voldemort. "For those of you who do not know, we are joined here tonight y Charity Burage who, until recently, taught at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry."
There were small noises of comprehension around the tale. A road, hunched woman with pointed teeth cackled.
"Yes ... Professor Burage taught the children of witches and wizards all aout Muggles ... how they are not so different from us ... "
One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor. Charity Burage revolved to face Snape again.
"Severus ... please ... please ... "
"Silence," said Voldemort, with another twitch of Malfoy’s wand, and Charity fell silent as if gagged. "Not content with corrupting and polluting the minds of Wizarding children, last week Professor Burage wrote an impassioned defense of Mudloods in the Daily Prophet. Wizards, she says, must accept these thieves of their knowledge and magic. The dwindling of the pureloods is, says Professor Burage, a most desirale circumstance ... She would have us all mate with Muggles ... or, no dout, werewolves ... "
Noody laughed this time. There was no mistaking the anger and contempt in Voldemort’s voice. For the third time, Charity Burage revolved to face Snape. Tears were pouring from her eyes into her hair. Snape looked ack at her, quite impassive, as she turned slowly away from him again.
"Avada Kedavra"
The flash of green light illuminated every corner of the room. Charity fell, with a resounding crash, onto the tale elow, which tremled and creaked. Several of the Death Eaters leapt ack in their chairs. Draco fell out of his onto the floor.
"Dinner, Nagini," said Voldemort softly, and the great snake swayed and slithered from his shoulders onto the polished wood.
Chapter Two
In Memorandum
Harry was leeding. Clutching his right hand in his left and swearing under his reath, he shouldered open his edroom door. There was a crunch of reaking china. He had trodden on a cup of cold tea that had een sitting on the floor outside his edroom door.
"What the --?"
He looked around, the landing of numer four, Privet Drive, was deserted. Possily the cup of tea was Dudleys idea of a clever ooy trap. Keeping his leeding hand elevated, Harry scraped the fragments of cup together with the other hand and threw them into the already crammed in just visile inside his edroom door. Then he tramped across to the athroom to run his finger under the tap.
It was stupid, pointless, irritating eyond elief that he still had four days left of eing unale to perform magic...ut he had to admit to himself that this jagged cut in his finger would have defeated him. He had never learned how to repair wounds, and now he came to think of it - particularly in light of his immediate plans - this seemed a serious flaw in his magical education. Making a mental note to ask Hermione how it was done, he used a large wad of toilet paper to mop up as much of the tea as he could efore returning to his edroom and slamming the door ehind him.
Harry had spent the morning completely emptying his school trunk for the first time since he had packed it six years ago. At the start of the intervening school years, he had merely skimmed off the topmost three quarters of the contents and replaced or updated them, leaving a layer of general deris at the ottom - old quills, desiccated eetle eyes, single socks that no longer fit. Minutes previously, Harry had plunged his hand into this mulch, experienced a staing pain in the fourth finger of his right hand, and withdrawn it to see a lot of lood.
He now proceeded a little more cautiously. Kneeling down eside the trunk again, he groped around in the ottom and, after retrieving an old adge that flickered feely etween SUPPORT CEDRIC DIGGORY and POTTER STINKS, a cracked and worn-out Sneakoscope, and a gold locket inside which a note signed R.A.B. had een hidden, he finally discovered the sharp edge that had done the damage. He recognized it at once. It was a two-inch-long fragment of the enchanted mirror that his dead godfather, Sirius, had given him. Harry laid it aside and felt cautiously around the trunk for the rest, ut nothing
more remained of his godfathers last gift except powdered glass, which clung to the deepest layer of deris like glittering grit.
Harry sat up and examined the jagged piece on which he had cut himself, seeing nothing ut his own right green eye reflected ack at him. Then he placed the fragment on top of that mornings Daily prophet, which lay unread on the ed, and attempted to stem the sudden upsurge of itter memories, the stas of regret and of longing the discovery of the roken mirror had occasioned, y attacking the rest of the ruish in the trunk.
It took another hour to empty it completely, throw away the useless items, and sort the remainder in piles according to whether or not he would need them from now on. His school and Quidditch roes, cauldron, parchment, quills, and most of his textooks were piled in a corner, to e left ehind. He wondered what his aunt and uncle would do with them; urn them in the dead of night, proaly, as if they were evidence of some dreadful crime. His Muggle clothing, Invisiility Cloak, potion-making kit, certain ooks, the photograph alum Hagrid had once given him, a stack of letters, and his wand had een repacked into an old rucksack. In a front pocket were the Marauders Map and the locket with the note signed R.A.B. inside it. The locket was accorded this place of honor not ecause it was valuale - in all usual senses it was worthless - ut ecause of what it had cost to attain it.
This left a sizale stack of newspapers sitting on his desk eside his snowy owl, Hedwig: one for each of the days Harry had spent at Privet Drive this summer.
He got up off the floor, stretched, and moved across to his desk. Hedwig made no movement as he egan to flick through newspapers, throwing them into the ruish pile one y one. The owl was asleep or else faking; she was angry with Harry aout the limited amount of time she was allowed out of her cage at the moment.
As he neared the ottom of the pile of newspapers, Harry slowed down, searching for one particular issue that he knew had arrived shortly after he had returned to Privet Drive for the summer; he rememered that there had een a small mention on the front aout the resignation of Charity Burage, the Muggle Studies teacher at Hogwarts. At last he found it. Turning to page ten, he sank into his desk chair and reread the article he had een looking for.
ALBUS DUMBLEDORE REMEMBERED
By Elphias Doge
I met Alus Dumledore at the age of eleven, on our first day at Hogwarts. Our mutual attraction was undoutedly due to the fact that we oth felt ourselves to e outsiders. I had contracted dragon pox shortly efore arriving at school, and while
I was no longer contagious, my pock-marked visage and greenish hue did not encourage many to approach me. For his part, Alus had arrived at Hogwarts under the urden of unwanted notoriety. Scarcely a year previously, his father, Percival, had een convicted of a savage and well-pulicized attack upon three young Muggles.
Alus never attempted to deny that his father (who was to die in Azkaan) had committed this crime; on the contrary, when I plucked up courage to ask him, he assured me that he knew his father to e guilty. Beyond that, Dumledore refused to speak of the sad usiness, though many attempted to make him do so. Some, indeed, were disposed to praise his fathers action and assumed that Alus too was a Muggle-hater. They could not have een more mistaken: As anyody who knew Alus would attest, he never revealed the remotest anti-Muggle tendency. Indeed, his determined support for Muggle rights gained him many enemies in susequent years.
In a matter of months, however, Aluss own fame had egun to eclipse that of his father. By the end of his first year he would never again e known as the son of a Muggle-hater, ut as nothing more or less than the most rilliant student ever seen at the school. Those of us who were privileged to e his friends enefited from his example, not to mention his help and encouragement, with which he was always generous. He confessed to me later in life that he knew even then that his greatest pleasure lay in teaching.
He not only won every prize of note that the school offered, he was soon in regular correspondence with the most notale magical names of the day, including Nicolas Flamel, the celerated alchemist; Bathilda Bagshot, the noted historian; and Adalert Waffling, the magical theoretician. Several of his papers found their way into learned pulications such as Transfiguration Today, Challenges in Charming, and The Practical Potioneer. Dumledores future career seemed likely to e meteoric, and the only question that remained was when he would ecome Minister of Magic. Though it was often predicted in later years that he was on the point of taking the jo, however, he never had Ministerial amitions.
Three years after we had started at Hogwarts, Aluss rother, Aerforth, arrived at school. They were not alike: Aerforth was never ookish and, unlike Alus, preferred to settle arguments y dueling rather than through reasoned discussion. However, it is quite wrong to suggest, as some have, that the rothers were not friends. They rued along as comfortaly as two such different oys could do. In fairness to Aerforth, it must e admitted that living in Aluss shadow cannot have een an altogether comfortale experience. Being continually outshone was an occupational hazard of eing his friend and cannot have een any more pleasurale as a rother. When Alus and I left Hogwarts we intended to take the then-traditional tour of the world together, visiting and oserving foreign wizards, efore pursuing our separate careers. However, tragedy intervened. On the very eve of our trip, Aluss mother, Kendra, died, leaving
Alus the head, and sole readwinner, of the family. I postponed my departure long enough to pay my respects at Kendras funeral, then left for what was now to e a solitary journey. With a younger rother and sister to care for, and little gold left to them, there could no longer e any question of Alus accompanying me.
That was the period of our lives when we had least contact. I wrote to Alus, descriing, perhaps insensitively, the wonders of my journey, from narrow escapes from chimaeras in Greece to the experiments of the Egyptian alchemists. His letters told me little of his day-to-day life, which I guessed to e frustratingly dull for such a rilliant wizard. Immersed in my own experiences, it was with horror that I heard, toward the end of my years travels, that another tragedy had struck the Dumledores: the death of his sister, Ariana.
Though Ariana had een in poor health for a long time, the low, coming so soon after the loss of their mother, had a profound effect on oth of her rothers. All those closest to Alus - and I count myself one of that lucky numer - agree that Arianas death, and Aluss feeling of personal responsiility for it (though, of course, he was guiltless), left their mark upon him forevermore.
I returned home to find a young man who had experienced a much older persons suffering. Alus was more reserved than efore, and much less light-hearted. To add to his misery, the loss of Ariana had led, not to a renewed closeness etween Alus and Aerforth, ut to an estrangement. (In time this would lift - in later years they reestalished, if not a close relationship, then certainly a cordial one.) However, he rarely spoke of his parents or of Ariana from then on, and his friends learned not to mention them.
Other quills will descrie the triumphs of the following years. Dumledores innumerale contriutions to the store of Wizarding knowledge, including his discovery of the twelve uses of dragons lood, will enefit generations to come, as will the wisdom he displayed in the many judgments while Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot. They say, still, that no Wizarding duel ever matched that etween Dumledore and Grindelwald in 1945. Those who witnessed it have written of the terror and the awe they felt as they watched these two extraordinary wizards to attle. Dumledores triumph, and its consequences for the Wizarding world, are considered a turning point in magical history to match the introduction of the International Statute of Secrecy or the downfall of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.
Alus Dumledore was never proud or vain; he could find something to value in anyone, however apparently insignificant or wretched, and I elieve that his early losses endowed him with great humanity and sympathy. I shall miss his friendship more than I can say, ut my loss is nothing compared to the Wizarding worlds. That he was the most inspiring and est loved of all Hogwarts headmasters cannot e in question. He died as he lived: working always for the
greater good and, to his last hour, as willing to stretch out a hand to a small oy with dragon pox as he was on the day I met him.
Harry finished reading, ut continued to gaze at the picture accompanying the oituary. Dumledore was wearing his familiar, kindly smile, ut as he peered over the top of his half-moon spectacles, he gave the impression, even in newsprint, of X-raying Harry, whose sadness mingled with a sense of humiliation.
He had thought he knew Dumledore quite well, ut ever since reading this oituary he had een forced to recognize that he had arely known him at all. Never once had he imagined Dumledores childhood or youth; it was as though he had sprung into eing as Harry had known him, venerale and silver-haired and old. The idea of a teenage Dumledore was simply odd, like trying to imagine a stupid Hermione or a friendly Blast-Ended Skrewt.
He had never thought to ask Dumledore aout his past. No dout it would have felt strange, impertinent even, ut after all it had een common knowledge that Dumledore had taken part in that legendary duel with Grindelwald, and Harry had not thought to ask Dumledore what that had een like, nor aout any of his other famous achievements. No, they had always discussed Harry, Harrys past, Harrys future, Harrys plans... and it seemed to Harry now, despite the fact that his future was so dangerous and so uncertain, that he had missed irreplaceale opportunities when he had failed to ask Dumledore more aout himself, even though the only personal question he had ever asked his headmaster was also the only one he suspected that Dumledore had not answered honestly:
"What do you see when you look in the mirror?"
"I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks."
After several minutes thought, Harry tore the oituary out of the Prophet, folded it carefully, and tucked it inside the first volume of Practical Defensive Magic and its Use against the Dark Arts. Then he threw the rest of the newspaper onto the ruish pile and turned to face the room. It was much tidier. The only things left out of place were todays Daily Prophet, still lying on the ed, and on top of it, the piece of roken mirror.
Harry moved across the room, slid the mirror fragment off todays Prophet, and unfolded the newspaper. He had merely glanced at the headline when he had taken the rolled-up paper from the delivery owl early that morning and thrown it aside, after noting that it said nothing aout Voldemort. Harry was sure that the Ministry was leaning on the Prophet to suppress news aout Voldemort. It was only now, therefore, that he saw what he had missed.
Across the ottom half of the front page a smaller headline was set over a picture of Dumledore striding along, looking harried:
DUMBLEDORE - THE TRUTH AT LAST?
Coming next week, the shocking story of the flawed genius considered y many to e the greatest wizard of his generation. Striping away the popular image of serene, silver-earded wisdom, Rita Skeeter reveals the distured childhood, the lawless youth, the life-long feuds, and the guilty secrets that Dumledore carried to his grave, WHY was the man tipped to e the Minister of Magic content to remain a mere headmaster? WHAT was the real purpose of the secret organization known as the Order of the Phoenix? HOW did Dumledore really meet his end?
The answers to these and many more questions are explored in the explosive new iography, The Life and Lies of Alus Dumledore, y Rita Skeeter, exclusively interviewed y Berry Braithwaite, page 13, inside.
Harry ripped open the paper and found page thirteen. The article was topped with a picture showing another familiar face: a woman wearing jeweled glasses with elaorately curled londe hair, her teeth ared in what was clearly supposed to e a winning smile, wiggling her fingers up at him. Doing his est to ignore this nauseating image, Harry read on.
In person, Rita Skeeter is much warmer and softer than her famously ferocious quill-portraits might suggest. Greeting me in the hallway of her cozy home, she leads me straight into the kitchen for a cup of tea, a slice of pound cake and, it goes without saying, a steaming vat of freshest gossip.
"Well, of course, Dumledore is a iographers dream," says Skeeter. "Such a long, full life. Im sure my ook will e the first of very, very many."
Skeeter was certainly quick off the mark. Her nine-hundred-page ook was completed in a mere four weeks after Dumledores mysterious death in June. I ask her how she managed this superfast feat.
"Oh, when youve een a journalist as long as I have, working to a deadline is second nature. I knew that the Wizarding world was clamoring for the full story and I wanted to e the first to meet that need."
I mention the recent, widely pulicized remarks of Elphias Doge, Special Advisor to the Wizengamot and longstanding friend of Alus Dumledores, that "Skeeters ook contains less fact than a Chocolate Frog card."
Skeeter throws ack her head and laughs.
"Darling Dodgy! I rememer interviewing him a few years ack aout merpeople rights, less him. Completely gaga, seemed to think we were sitting at the ottom of Lake Windermere, kept telling me to watch out for trout."
And yet Elphias Doges accusations of inaccuracy have een echoed in many places. Does Skeeter really feel that four short weeks have een enough to gain a full picture of Dumledores long and extraordinary life?
"Oh, my dear," eams Skeeter, rapping me affectionately across the knuckles, "you know as well as I do how much information can e generated y a fat ag of Galleons, a refusal to hear the word no, and a nice sharp Quick-Quotes Quill! People were queuing to dish the dirt on Dumledore anyway. Not everyone thought he was so wonderful, you know - he trod on an awful lot of important toes. But old Dodgy Doge can get off his high hippogriff, ecause Ive had access to a source most journalists would swap their wands for, one who has never spoken in pulic efore and who was close to Dumledore during the most turulent and disturing phase of his youth."
The advance pulicity for Skeeters iography has certainly suggested that there will e shocks in store for those who elieve Dumledore to have led a lameless life. What were the iggest surprises she uncovered, I ask?
"Now, come off it. Betty, Im not giving away all the highlights efore anyodys ought the ook!" laughs Skeeter. "But I can promise that anyody who still thinks Dumledore was white as his eard is in for a rude awakening! Lets just say that noody hearing him rage against You-Know-Who would have dreamed that he daled in the Dark Arts himself in his youth! And for a wizard who spent his later years pleading for tolerance, he wasnt exactly road-minded when he was younger! Yes, Alus Dumledore had an extremely murky past, not to mention that very fishy family, which he worked so hard to keep hushed up."
I ask whether Skeeter is referring to Dumledores rother, Aerforth, whose conviction y the Wizengamot for misuse of magic caused a minor scandal fifteen years ago.
"Oh, Aerforth is just the tip of the dung heap," laughs Skeeter. "No, no, Im talking aout much worse than a rother with a fondness for fiddling aout with goats, worse even than the Muggle-maiming father - Dumledore couldnt keep either of them quiet anyway, they were oth charged y the Wizengamot. No, its the mother and the sister that intrigued me, and a little digging uncovered a
positive nest of nastiness - ut, as I say, youll have to wait for chapters nine to twelve for full details. All I can say now is, its no wonder Dumledore never talked aout how his nose got roken."
Family skeletons notwithstanding, does Skeeter deny the rilliance that led to Dumledores many magical discoveries?
"He had rains," she concedes, "although many now question whether he could really take full credit for all of his supposed achievements. As I reveal in chapter sixteen, Ivor Dillonsy claims he had already discovered eight uses of dragons lood when Dumledore orrowed his papers."
But the importance of some of Dumledores achievements cannot, I venture, e denied. What of his famous defeat of Grindelwald?
"Oh, now, Im glad you mentioned Grindelwald," says Skeeter with such a tantalizing smile. "Im afraid those who go dewy-eyed over Dumledores spectacular victory must race themselves for a omshell - or perhaps a Dungom. Very dirty usiness indeed. All Ill say is, dont e so sure that there really was a spectacular duel of legend. After theyve read my ook, people may e forced to conclude that Grindelwald simply conjured a white handkerchief from the end of his wand and came quietly!"
Skeeter refuses to give any more away on this intriguing suject, so we turn instead to the relationship that will undoutedly fascinate her readers more than any other.
"Oh yes," says Skeeter, nodding riskly, "I devote an entire chapter to the whole Potter-Dumledore relationship. Its een called unhealthy, even sinister. Again, your readers will have to uy my ook for the whole story, ut there is no question that Dumledore took an unnatural interest in Potter from the word go. Whether that was really in the oys est interests - well, well see. Its certainly an open secret that Potter has had a most trouled adolescence."
I ask whether Skeeter is still in touch with Harry Potter, whom she so famously interviewed last year: a reakthrough piece in which Potter spoke exclusively of his conviction that You-Know-Who had returned.
"Oh, yes, weve developed a closer ond," says Skeeter. "Poor Potter has few real friends, and we met at one of the most testing moments of his life - the Triwizard Tournament. I am proaly one of the only people alive who can say that they know the real Harry Potter."
Which leads us neatly to the many rumors still circulating aout Dumledores final hours. Does Skeeter elieve that Potter was there when Dumledore died?
"Well, I dont want to say too much - its all in the ook - ut eyewitnesses inside Hogwarts castle saw Potter running away from the scene moments after Dumledore fell, jumped, or was pushed. Potter later gave evidence against Severus Snape, a man against whom he has a notorious grudge. Is everything as it seems? That is for the Wizarding community to decide - once theyve read my ook."
On that intriguing note, I take my leave. There can e no dout that Skeeter has quilled an instant estseller. Dumledores legion of admirers, meanwhile, may well e tremling at what is soon to emerge aout their hero.
Harry reached the ottom of the article, ut continued to stare lankly at the page. Revulsion and fury rose in him like vomit; he alled up the newspaper and threw it, with all his force, at the wall, where it joined the rest of the ruish heaped around his overflowing in.
He egan to stride lindly around the room, opening empty drawers and picking up ooks only to replace them on the same piles, arely conscious of what he was doing, as random phrases from Ritas article echoed in his head: An entire chapter to the whole Potter-Dumledore relationship ... Its een called unhealthy, even sinister ... He daled in the Dark Arts himself in his youth ... Ive had access to a source most journalists would swap their wands for...
"Lies!" Harry ellowed, and through the window he saw the next-door neighor, who had paused to restart his lawn mower, look up nervously.
Harry sat down hard on the ed. The roken it of mirror danced away from him; he picked it up and turned it over in his fingers, thinking, thinking of Dumledore and the lies with which Rita Skeeter was defaming him ...
A flash of rightest lue. Harry froze, his cut finger slipping on the jagged edge of the mirror again. He had imagined it, he must have done. He glanced over his shoulder, ut the wall was a sickly peach color of Aunt Petunias choosing: There was nothing lue there for the mirror to reflect. He peered into the mirror fragment again, and saw nothing ut his own right green eye looking ack at him.
He had imagined it, there was no other explanation; imagined it, ecause he had een thinking of his dead headmaster. If anything was certain, it was that the right lue eyes of Alus Dumledore would never pierce him again.
Chapter Three
The Dursleys Departing
The sound of the front door slamming echoed up the stairs and a voice roared, "Oh! You!"
Sixteen years of eing addressed thus left Harry in no dout when his uncle was calling, nevertheless, he did not immediately respond. He was still at the narrow fragment in which, for a split second, he had thought he saw Dumledore’s eye. It was not until his uncle ellowed, "BOY!" that Harry got slowly out of ed and headed for the edroom door, pausing to add the piece of roken mirror to the rucksack filled with things he would e taking with him.
"You took you time!" roared Vernon Dursley when Harry appeared at the top of the stairs, "Get down here. I want a word!"
Harry strolled downstairs, his hands deep in his pants pockets. When he searched the living room he found all three Dursleys. They were dressed for packing; Uncle Vernon in an old ripped-up jacket and Dudley, Harry’s, large, lond, muscular cousin, in his leather jacket.
"Yes?" asked Harry.
"Sit down!" said Uncle Vernon. Harry raised his eyerows. "Please!" added Uncle Vernon, wincing slightly as though the word was sharp in his throat.
Harry sat. He though he knew what was coming. His uncle egan to pace up and down, Aunt Petunia and Dudley, following his movement with anxious expressions. Finally, his large purple face crumpled with concentration. Uncle Vernon stopped in front of Harry and spoke.
"Ive changed my mind," he said.
"What a surprise," said Harry.
"Dont you take that tone-" egan Aunt Petunia in a shrill voice, ut Vernon Dursley waved her down
"Its all a lot of claptrap," said Uncle Vernon, glaring at Harry with piggy little eyes. "Ive decided I dont elieve a word of it. We’re staying put, we’re not going anywhere."
Harry looked up at his uncle and felt a mixture of exasperation and amusement. Vernon Dursley had een changing his mind every twenty four hours for the past four weeks, packing and unpacking and repacking the car with every change of heart. Harry’s favorite moment had een the one when Uncle Vernon, unaware the Dudley had added his dumells to his case since the last time it een repacked, had attempted to hoist it ack into the oot and collapsed with a yelp of pain and much swearing.
"According to you," Vernon Dursley said, now resuming his pacing up and down the living room, "we - Petunia, Dudley, and I - are in danger. From - from -"
"Some of ‘my lot’ right?" said Harry
"Well I don’t elieve it," repeated Uncle Vernon, coming to a halt in front of Harry again. "I was awake half the night thinking it all over, and I elieve its a plot to get the house."
"The house?" repeated Harry. "What house?"
"This house!" shrieked Uncle Vernon, the vein his forehead starting to pulse. "Our house! House prices are skyrocketing around here! You want us out of the way and
then youre going to do a it of hocus pocus and efore we know it the deeds will e in your name and -"
"Are you out of your mind?" demanded Harry. "A plot to get this house? Are you actually as stupid as you look?"
"Dont you dare --!" squealed Aunt Petunia, ut again Vernon waved her down. Slights on his personal appearance were it seemed as nothing to the danger he had spotted.
"Just in case youve forgotten," said Harry, "Ive already got a house my godfather left me one. So why would I want this one? All the happy memories?"
There was silence. Harry thought he had rather impressed his uncle with this argument.
"You claim," said Uncle Vernon, starting to pace yet again, "that this Lord Thing -"
"-Voldemort," said Harry impatiently, "and weve een through this aout a hundred times already. This isnt a claim, its fact. Dumledore told you last year, and Kingsley and Mr. Weasley -"
Vernon Dursley hunched his shoulders angrily, and Harry guessed that his uncle was attempting to ward off recollections of the unannounced visit, a few days into Harrys summer holidays, of two fully grown wizards. The arrival on the doorstep of Kingsley Shackleolt and Arthur Weasley had come as a most unpleasant shock to the Dursleys. Harry had to admit, however that as Mr. Weasley had once demolished half of the living room, his reappearance could not have een expected to delight Uncle Vernon.
"-Kingsley and Mr. Weasley explained it all as well," Harry pressed on remorselessly, "Once Im seventeen, the protective charm that keeps me safe will reak, and that exposes you as well as me. The Order is sure Voldemort will target you, whether to torture you to try and find out where I am, or ecause he thinks y holding you hostage Id come and try to rescue you."
Uncle Vernons and Harrys eyes met. Harry was sure that in that instant they were oth wondering the same thing. Then Uncle Vernon walked on and Harry resumed, "Youve got to go into hiding and the Order wants to help. Youre eing offered serious protection, the est there is."
Uncle Vernon said nothing ut continued to pace up and down. Outside the sun hung low over the privet hedges. The next door neighors lawn mower stalled again.
"I thought there was a Ministry of Magic?" asked Vernon Dursley aruptly.
"There is," said Harry, surprised.
"Well, then, why cant they protect us? It seems to me that, as innocent victims, guilty of nothing more than haroring a marked man, we ought to qualify for government protection!"
Harry laughed; he could not help himself. It was so very typical of his uncle to put his hopes in the estalishment, even within this world that he despised and mistrusted.
"You heard what Mr. Weasley and Kingsley said," Harry replied.
"We think the Ministry has een infiltrated."
Uncle Vernon strode ack to the fireplace and ack reathing so strongly that his great lack mustache rippled his face still purple with concentration.
"All right," he said. Stopping in front of Harry get again. "All right, lets say for the sake of argument we accept this protection. I still dont see why we cant have that Kingsley loke."
Harry managed not to roll his eyes, ut with difficulty. This question had also een addressed half a dozen times.
"As Ive told you," he said through gritted teeth, "Kingsley is protecting the Mug - I mean, your Prime Minister."
"Exactly - hes the est!" said Uncle Vernon, pointing at the lank television screen. The Dursleys had spotted Kingsley on the news, walking along the Muggle Prime Minister as he visited a hospital. This, and the fact that Kingsley had mastered the knack of dressing like a Muggle, not to mention a certain reassuring something in his slow, deep voice, had caused the Dursleys to take to Kingsley in a way that they had certainly not done with any other wizard, although it was true that they had never seen him with earring in.
"Well, hes taken," said Harry. "But Hestia Jones and Dedalus Diggle are more than up to the jo -"
"If wed even seen CVs..." egan Uncle Vernon, ut Harry lost patience. Getting to his feet, he advanced on his uncle, not pointing at the TV set himself.
"These accidents arent accidents - the crashed and explosions and derailments and whatever else has happened since we last watched the news. People are disappearing and dying and hes ehind it - Voldemort. Ive told you this over and over again, he kills Muggles for fun. Even the fogs - theyre caused y dementors, and if you cant rememer what they are, ask your son!"
Dudleys hands jerked upward to tower his mouth. With his parents and Harrys eyes upon him, he slowly lowered them again and asked, "There are... more of them?"
"More?" laughed Harry. "More than the two that attacked us, you mean? Of course there are hundreds, maye thousands y this time, seeing as they feed off fear and despair-"
"All right, all right lustered," lustered Vernon Dursley. "Youve made your point -"
"I hope so," said Harry, "ecause once Im seventeen, all of them - Death Eaters, elementors, maye even Inferi - which means dead odies enchanted y a Dark wizard - will e ale to find you and will certainly attack you. And if you rememer the last time you tried to outrun wizards, I think youll agree you need help."
There was a rief silence in which the distant echo of Hagrid smashing down a wooden front door seemed to revererate through the intervening years. Aunt Petunia was looking at Uncle Vernon; Dudley was staring at Harry. Finally Uncle Vernon lurted out, "But what aout my work? What aout Dudleys school? I dont suppose those things matter to a unch of layaout wizards -"
"Dont you understand?" shouted Harry. "They will torture and kill you like they did my parents!"
"Dad," said Dudley in a loud voice, "Dad - Im going with these Order people."
"Dudley," said Harry, "for the first time in your life, youre talking sense."
He knew the attle was won. If Dudley was frightened enough to accept the Orders help, his parents would accompany him. There could e no question of eing separated from their Duddykins. Harry glanced at the carriage clock on the mantelpiece.
"Theyll e here in aout five minutes, he said, and when one of the Dursleys replied, he left the room. The prospect of parting-proaly forever - from his aunt, uncle, and cousin was one that he was ale to contemplate quite cheerfully ut there was nevertheless a certain awkwardness in the air. What did you say to one another at the end of sixteen years solid dislike?
Back in his edroom, Harry fiddled aimlessly with his rucksack then poked a couple of owl nuts through the ats of Hedwigs cage. They fell with dull thuds to the ottom where she ignored them.
"Were leaving soon, really soon," Harry told her. "And then youll e ale to fly again."
The doorell rang. Harry hesitated, then headed ack out of his room and downstairs. It was too much to expect Hestia and Dedalus to cope with the Dursleys on their own.
"Harry Potter!" squeaked an excited voice, the moment Harry had opened the door; a small man in a mauve top hat that was sweeping him a deep ow. "An honor as ever!"
"Thanks, Dedalus," said Harry, estowing a small and emarrassed smile upon the dark haired Hestia. "Its really good of you to do this... Theyre through here, my aunt and uncle and cousin..."
"Good day to you, Harry Potters relatives!" said Dedalus happily striding into the living room. The Dursleys did not look at all happy to e addressed thus; Harry half expected another change of mind. Dudley shrank neared to his mother at the sight of the witch and wizard.
"I see you are packed and ready. Excellent! The plan, as Harry has told you, is a simple one," said Dedalus, pulling an immense pocket watch out of his waistcoat and examining it. "We shall e leaving efore Harry does. Due to the danger of using magic in your house -Harry eing still underage it could provide the Ministry with an excuse to arrest him - we shall e driving, say, ten miles or so efore Disapparating to the safe location we have picked out for you. You know how to drive, I take it?" He asked Uncle Vernon politely.
"Know how to -? Of course I ruddy well know how to drive!" spluttered Uncle Vernon.
"Very clever of you, sir, very clever. I personally would e utterly amoozled y all those uttons and knos," said Dedalus. He was clearly under the impression that he was flattering Vernon Dursley, who was visily losing confidence in the plan with every word Dedalus spoke.
"Cant even drive," he muttered under his reath, his mustache rippling indignantly, ut fortunately neither Dedalus nor Hestia seemed to hear him.
"You, Harry," Dedalus continued, "will wait here for your guard. There has een a little change in the arrangements -"
"What dyou mean?" said Harry at once. "I thought Mad-Eye was going to come and take me y Side Along-Apparition?"
"Cant do it," said Hestia tersely, "Mad-Eye will explain."
The Dursleys, who had listened to all of this with looks of utter incomprehension on their faces, jumped as a loud voice screeched, "Hurry up!" Harry looked all around the room efore realizing the voice had issued from Dedaluss pocket watch.
"Quite right, were operating to a very tight schedule," said Dedalus nodding at his watch and tucking it ack into his waist coat. "We are attempting to time your departure from the house with your familys Disapparition, Harry thus the charm reaks the moment you all head for safety." He turned to the Dursleys, "Well, are we all packed and ready to go?"
None of them answered him. Uncle Vernon was still staring appalled at the ulge in Dedaluss waistcoat pocket.
"Perhaps we should wait outside in the hall, Dedalus," murmured Hestia. She clearly felt that it would e tactless for them to remain the room while Harry and the Dursleys exchanged loving, possily tearful farewells.
"Theres no need," Harry muttered, ut Uncle Vernon made any further explanation unnecessary y saying loudly,
"Well, this is good-ye then oy."
He swung his right arm upward to shake Harrys hand, ut at the last moment seemed unale to face it, and merely closed his fist and egan swinging it ackward and forward like a metronome.
"Ready, Duddy?" asked Petunia, fussily checking the clasp of her handag so as to avoid looking at Harry altogether.
Dudley did not answer ut stood there with his mouth slightly ajar, reminding Harry a little of the giant, Grawp.
"Come along, then," said Uncle Vernon.
He had already reached the living room door when Dudley mumled, "I dont understand."
"What dont you understand, popkin?" asked Petunia looking up at her son.
Dudley raised a large, hamlike hand to point at Harry.
"Why isnt he coming with us?
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia froze when they stood staring at Dudley as though he had just expressed a desire to ecome a allerina.
"What?" said Uncle Vernon loudly.
"Why isnt he coming too?" asked Dudley.
"Well, he-doesnt want to," said Uncle Vernon, turning to glare at Harry and adding, "You dont want to, do you?"
"Not in the slightest," said Harry.
"There you are," Uncle Vernon told Dudley. "Now come on were off."
He marched out of the room. They heard the front door open, ut Dudley did not move and after a few faltering steps Aunt Petunia stopped too.
"What now?" arked Uncle Vernon, reappearing in the doorway.
It seemed that Dudley was struggling with concepts too difficult to put into words. After several moments of apparently painful internal struggle he said, "But wheres he going to go?"
Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon looked at each other. It was clear that Dudley was frightening them. Hestia Jones roke the silence.
"But... surely you know where your nephew is going?" she asked looking ewildered.
"Certainly we know," said Vernon Dursley. "Hes off with some of your lot, isnt he? Right, Dudley, lets get in the car, you heard the man, were in a hurry.
Again, Vernon Dursley marched as far as the front door, ut Dudley did not follow.
"Off with some of our lot?"
Hestia looked outraged. Harry had met this attitude efore Witches and wizards seemed stunned that his closed living relatives took so little interest in the famous Harry Potter.
"Its fine," Harry assured her. "It doesnt matter, honestly."
"Doesnt matter?" repeated Hestia, her voice rising consideraly.
"Dont these people realize what youve een through? What danger you are in? The unique position you hold in the hearts of the anti Voldemort movement?"
"Er -no, they dont," said Harry. "They think Im a waste of space, actually ut Im used to -"
"I dont think youre a waste of space"
If Harry had not seen Dudleys lips move, he might not have elieved it. As it was, he stared at Dudley for several seconds efore accepting that it must have een his cousin who had spoken; for one thing, Dudley had turned red. Harry was emarrassed and astonished himself.
"Well... er... thanks, Dudley."
Again, Dudley appeared to grapple with thoughts too unwieldy for expression efore mumling, "You saved my life,"
"Not really," said Harry. "It was your soul the dementor would have taken..."
He looked curiously at his cousin. They had had virtually no contact during this summer or last, as Harry had come ack to Privet Drive so riefly and kept to his room so much. It now dawned on Harry, however, that the cup of cold tea on which he had trodden that morning might not have een a ooy trap at all. Although rather touched he was nevertheless quite relieved that Dudley appeared to have exhausted his aility to express his feelings. After opening his mouth once or twice more, Dudley susided into scarlet-faced silence.
Aunt Petunia urst into tears. Hestia Jones gave her an approving look that changed to outrage as Aunt Petunia ran forward and emraced Dudley rather than Harry.
"S-so sweet, Dudders..." she soed into his massive chest. "S-such a lovely -oy... s-saying thank you..."
"But he hasnt said thank you at all!" said Hestia indignantly. "He only said he didnt think Harry was a waste of space!"
"Yea ut coming from Dudley thats like I love you," said Harry, torn etween annoyance and a desire to laugh as Aunt Petunia continued to clutch at Dudley as if he had just saved Harry from a urning uilding.
"Are we going or not?" roared Uncle Vernon, reappearing yet again at the living room door. "I thought we were on a tight schedule!"
"Yes -yes, we are," said Dedalus Diggle, who had een watching these exchanged with an air of emusement and now seemed to pull himself together. "We really must e off. Harry -"
He tripped forward and wrung Harrys hand with oth of his own.
"-good luck. I hope we meet again. The hopes of the Wizarding world rest upon your shoulders."
"Oh," said Harry, "right. Thanks."
"Farwell, Harry," said Hestia also clasping his hand. "Our thoughts go with you."
"I hope everythings okay," said Harry with a glance toward Aunt Petunia and Dudley.
"Oh Im sure we shall end up the est of chums," said Diggle slightly, waving his hat as he left the room. Hestia followed him.
Dudley gently released himself from his mothers clutches and walked toward Harry who had to repress an urge to threaten him with magic. Then Dudley held out his large, pink hand.
"Blimey, Dudley," said Harry over Aunt Petunias renewed sos, "did the dementors low a different personality into you?"
"Dunno," muttered Dudley, "See you, Harry."
"Yea ..." said Harry, raking Dudleys hand and shaking it. "Maye. Take care, Big D."
Dudley nearly smiled. They lumered from the room. Harry heard his heavy footfalls on the graveled drive, and then a car door slammed.
Aunt Petunia whose face had een uried in her handkerchief looked around at the sound. She did not seem to have expected to find herself alone with Harry. Hastily stowing her wet handkerchief into her pocket, she said, "Well - good-ye" and marched towards the door without looking at him.
"Good-ye" said Harry.
She stopped and looked ack. For a moment Harry had the strangest feeling that she wanted to say something to him; She gave him an odd, tremulous look and seemed to teeter on the edge of speech, ut then, with a little of her head, she hustled out of the room after he husand and son.
Chapter Four
The Seven Potters
Harry ran ack upstairs to his edroom, arriving at the window just in time to see the Dursleys car swinging out of the drive and off up the road. Dedalus’s top hat was visile etween Aunt Petunia and Dudley in the ackseat. The car turned right at the end of Privet Drive, its windows urned scarlet for a moment in the now setting sun, and then it was gone.
Harry picked up Hedwig’s cage, his Fireolt, and his rucksack, gave his unnaturally tidy edroom one last sweeping look, and then made his ungainly way ack downstairs to the hall, where he deposited cage, roomstick, and ag near the foot of the stairs. The light was fading rapidly, the hall full of shadows in the evening light. It felt most strange to stand here in the silence and know that he was aout to leave the house for the last time. Long ago, when he had een left alone while the Dursleys went out to enjoy themselves, the hours of solitude had een a rare treat. Pausing only to sneak something tasty from the fridge, he had rushed upstairs to play on Dudley’s computer, or put on the television and flicked through the channels to his heart’s content. It gave him an odd, empty feeling rememering those times; it was like rememering a younger rother whom he had lost.
"Don’t you want to take a last look at the place?" he asked Hedwig, who was still sulking with her head under her wing. "We’ll never e here again. Don’t you want to rememer all the good times? I mean, look at this doormat. What memories ... Dudley soed on it after I saved him from the dementors ... Turns out he was grateful after all, can you elieve it? ... And last summer, Dumledore walked through that front door ... "
Harry lost the thread of his thoughts for a moment and Hedwig did nothing to help him retrieve it, ut continued to sit with her head under her wing. Harry turned his ack on the front door.
"And under here, Hedwig" - Harry pulled open a door under the stairs - "is where I used to sleep! You never knew me then - Blimey, it’s small, I’d forgotten ... "
Harry looked around at the stacked shoes and umrellas rememering how he used to wake every morning looking up at the underside of the staircase, which was more often than not adorned with a spider or two. Those had een the days efore he had known anything aout his true identity; efore he had found out how his parents had died or why such strange things often happened around him. But Harry could still rememer the dreams that had dogged him, even in those days: confused dreams involving flashes of green light and once - Uncle Vernon had nearly crashed the car when Harry had recounted it - a flying motorike ...
There was a sudden, deafening roar from somewhere neary. Harry straightened up with a jerk and smacked the top of his head on the low door frame. Pausing only to employ a few of Uncle Vernon’s choicest swear words, he staggered ack into the kitchen, clutching his head and staring out of the window into the ack garden.
The darkness seemed to e rippling, the air itself quivering. Then, one y one, figures egan to pop into sight as their Disillusionment Charms lifted. Dominating the scene was Hagrid, wearing a helmet and goggles and sitting astride an enormous motorike with a lack sidecar attached. All around him other people were dismounting from rooms and, in two cases, skeletal, lack winged horses.
Wrenching open the ack door, Harry hurtled into their midst. There was a general cry of greeting as Hermione flung her arms around him, Ron clapped him on the ack, and Hagrid said, "All righ’, Harry? Ready fer the off?"
"Definitely," said Harry, eaming around at them all. "But I wasn’t expecting this many of you!"
"Change of plan," growled Mad-Eye, who was holding two enormous ulging sacks, and whose magical eye was spinning from darkening sky to house to garden with dizzying rapidity. "Let’s get undercover efore we talk you through it."
Harry led them all ack into the kitchen where, laughing and chattering, they settled on chairs, sat themselves upon Aunt Petunia’s gleaming work surfaces, or leaned up against her spotless appliances; Ron, long and lanky; Hermione, her ushy hair tied ack in a long plait; Fred and George, grinning identically; Bill, adly scarred and long-haired; Mr. Weasley, kind-faced, alding, his spectacles a little awry; Mad-Eye, attle-worn, one-legged, his right lue magical eye whizzing in its socket; Tonks, whose short hair was her favorite shade of right pink; Lupin, grayer, more lined; Fleur, slender and eautiful, with her long silvery londe hair; Kingsley, ald and road-shouldered; Hagrid, with his wild hair and eard, standing hunchacked to avoid hitting his head on the ceiling; and Mundungus Fletcher, small, dirty, and hangdog, with his droopy eady hound’s eyes and matted hair. Harry’s heart seemed to expand and glow at the sight: He
felt incredily fond of all of them, even Mundungus, whom he had tried to strangle the last time they had met.
"Kingsley, I thought you were looking after the Muggle Prime Minister?" he called across the room.
"He can get along without me for one night," said Kingsley, "You’re more important."
"Harry, guess what?" said Tonks from her perch on top of the washing machine, and she wiggled her left hand at him; a ring glistened there.
"You got married?" Harry yelped, looking from her to Lupin.
"I’m sorry you couldn’t e there, Harry, it was very quiet."
"That’s rilliant, congrat -"
"All right, all right, we’ll have time for a cozy catch-up later," roared Moody over the huu, and silence fell in the kitchen. Moody dropped his sacks at his feet and turned to Harry. "As Dedalus proaly told you, we had to aandon Plan A. Pius Thicknesse has gone over, which gives us a ig prolem. He’s made it an imprisonale offense to connect this house to the Floo Network, place a Portkey here, or Apparate in or out. All done in the name of your protection, to prevent You-Know-Who getting in at you. Asolutely pointless, seeing as your mother’s charm does that already. What he’s really done is to stop you getting out of here safely."
"Second prolem: You’re underage, which means you’ve still got the Trace on you."
"I don’t -"
"The Trace, the Trace!" said Mad-Eye impatiently. "The charm that detects magical activity around under-seventeens, the way the Ministry finds out aout underage magic! If you, or anyone around you, casts a spell to get you out of here, Thicknesse is going to know aout it, and so will the Death Eaters."
"We can’t wait for the Trace to reak, ecause the moment you turn seventeen you’ll lose all the protection your mother gave you. In short, Pius Thicknesse thinks he’s got you cornered good and proper."
Harry could not help ut agree with the unknown Thicknesse.
"So what are we going to do?"
"We’re going to use the only means of transport left to us, the only ones the Trace can’t detect, ecause we don’t need to cast spells to use them: rooms, thestrals, and Hagrid’s motorike."
Harry could see flaws in this plan; however, he held his tongue to give Mad-Eye the chance to address them.
"Now, your mother’s charm will only reak under two conditions: when you come of age, or" - Moody gestured around the pristine kitchen - "you no longer call this place home. You and your aunt and uncle are going your separate ways tonight, in the full understanding that you’re never going to live together again, correct?"
Harry nodded.
"So this time, when you leave, there’ll e no going ack, and the charm will reak the moment you get outside its range. We’re choosing to reak it early, ecause the alternative is waiting for You-Know-Who to come and seize you the moment you turn seventeen.
"The one thing we’ve got on our side is that You-Know-Who doesn’t know we’re moving you tonight. We’ve leaked a fake trail to the Ministry: They think you’re not leaving until the thirtieth. However, this is You-Know-Who we’re dealing with, so we can’t rely on him getting the date wrong; he’s ound to have a couple of Death Eaters patrolling the skies in this general area, just in case. So, we’ve given a dozen different houses every protection we can throw at them. They all look like they could e the place we’re going to hide you, they’ve all got some connection with the Order: my house, Kingsley’s place, Molly’s Auntie Muriel’s - you get the idea."
"Yeah," said Harry, not entirely truthfully, ecause he could still spot a gaping hole in the plan.
"You’ll e going to Tonks’s parents. Once you’re within the oundaries of the protective enchantments we’ve put on their house you’ll e ale to use a Portkey to the Burrow. Any questions?"
"Er - yes," said Harry. "Maye they won’t know which of the twelve secure houses I’m heading for at first, ut won’t it e sort of ovious once" - he performed a quick headcount - "fourteen of us fly off toward Tonks’s parents?"
"Ah," said Moody, "I forgot to mention the key point. Fourteen of us won’t e flying to Tonks’s parents. There will e seven Harry Potters moving through the skies tonight, each of them with a companion, each pair heading for a different safe house."
From inside his cloak Moody now withdrew a flask of what looked like mud. There was no need for him to say another word; Harry understood the rest of the plan immediately.
"No!" he said loudly, his voice ringing through the kitchen. "No way!"
"I told them you’d take it like this," said Hermione with a hint of complacency.
"If you think I’m going to let six people risk their lives -- !"
"-ecause it’s the first time for all of us," said Ron.
"This is different, pretending to e me -"
"Well, none of us really fancy it, Harry," said Fred earnestly. "Imagine if something went wrong and we were stuck as specky, scrawny gits forever."
Harry did not smile.
"You can’t do it if I don’t cooperate, you need me to give you some hair."
"Well, that’s the plan scuppered," said George. "Oviously there’s no chance at all of us getting a it of your hair unless you cooperate."
"Yeah, thirteen of us against one loke who’s not allowed to use magic; we’ve got no chance," said Fred.
"Funny," said Harry, "really amusing."
"If it has to come to force, then it will," growled Moody, his magical eye now quivering a little in its socket as he glared at Harry. "Everyone here’s overage, Potter, and they’re all prepared to take the risk."
Mundungus shrugged and grimaced; the magical eye swerved sideways to glance at him out of the side of Moody’s head.
"Let’s have no more arguments. Time’s wearing on. I want a few of your hairs, oy, now."
"But this is mad, there’s no need -"
"No need!" snarled Moody. "With You-Know-Who out there and half the Ministry on his side? Potter, if we’re lucky he’ll have swallowed the fake ait and he’ll
e planning to amush you on the thirtieth, ut he’d e mad not to have a Death Eater or two keeping an eye out, it’s what I’d do. They might not e ale to get at you or this house while your mother’s charm holds, ut it’s aout to reak and they know the rough position of the place. Our only chance is to use decoys. Even You-Know-Who can’t split himself into seven."
Harry caught Hermione’s eye and looked away at once.
"So, Potter - some of your hair, if you please."
Harry glanced at Ron, who grimaced at him in a just-do-it sort of way.
"Now!" arked Moody.
With all of their eyes upon him, Harry reached up to the top of his head, graed a hank of hair, and pulled.
"Good," said Moody, limping forward as he pulled the stopper out of the flask of potion. "Straight in here, if you please."
Harry dropped the hair into the mudlike liquid. The moment it made contact with its surface, the potion egan to froth and smoke, then, all at once, it turned a clear, right gold.
"Ooh, you look much tastier than Crae and Goyle, Harry," said Hermione, efore catching sight of Ron’s raised eyerows, lushing slightly, and saying, "Oh, you know what I mean - Goyle’s potion tasted like ogies."
"Right then, fake Potters line up over here, please," said Moody.
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Fleur lined up in front of Aunt Petunia’s gleaming sink.
"We’re one short," said Lupin.
"Here," said Hagrid gruffly, and he lifted Mundungus y the scruff of the neck and dropped him down eside Fleur, who wrinkled her nose pointedly and moved along to stand etween Fred and George instead.
"I’m a soldier, I’d sooner e a protector," said Mundungus.
"Shut it," growled Moody. "As I’ve already told you, you spineless worm, any Death Eaters we run into will e aiming to capture Potter, not kill him. Dumledore always said You-Know-Who would want to finish Potter in person. It’ll e the protectors who have got the most to worry aout, the Death Eaters’ll want to kill them."
Mundungus did not look particularly reassured, ut Moody was already pulling half a dozen eggcup-sized glasses from inside his cloak, which he handed out, efore pouring a little Polyjuice Potion into each one.
"Altogether, then ... "
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, Fleur, and Mundungus drank. All of them gasped and grimaced as the potion hit their throats; At once, their features egan to ule and distort like hot wax. Hermione and Mundungus were shooting upward; Ron, Fred, and George were shrinking; their hair was darkening, Hermione’s and Fleur’s appearing to shoot ackward into their skulls.
Moody, quite unconcerned, was now loosening the ties of the large sacks he had rought with him. When he straightened up again, there were six Harry Potters gasping and panting in front of him.
Fred and George turned to each other and said together, "Wow - we’re identical!"
"I dunno, though, I think I’m still etter-looking," said Fred, examining his reflection in the kettle.
"Bah," said Fleur, checking herself in the microwave door, "Bill, don’t look at me - I’m ‘ideous."
"Those whose clothes are a it roomy, I’ve got smaller here," said Moody, indicating the first sack, "and vice versa. Don’t forget the glasses, there’s six pairs in the side pocket. And when you’re dressed, there’s luggage in the other sack."
The real Harry thought that this might just e the most izarre thing he had ever seen, and he had seen some extremely odd things. He watched as his six doppelgangers rummaged in the sacks, pulling out sets of clothes, putting on glasses, stuffing their own things away. He felt like asking them to show a little more respect for privacy as they all egan stripping off with impunity, clearly more at ease with displaying his ody than they would have een with their own.
"I knew Ginny was lying aout that tattoo," said Ron, looking down at his are chest.
"Harry, your eyesight really is awful," said Hermione, as she put on glasses.
Once dressed, the fake Harrys took rucksacks and owl cages, each containing a stuffed snowy owl, from the second sack.
"Good," said Moody, as at last seven dressed, espectacled, and luggage-laden Harrys faced him. "The pairs will e as follows: Mundungus will e traveling with me, y room -"
"Why’m I with you?" grunted the Harry nearest the ack door.
"Because you’re the one that needs watching," growled Moody, and sure enough, his magical eye did not waver from Mundungus as he continued, "Arthur and Fred -"
"I’m George," said the twin at whom Moody was pointing. "Can’t you even tell us apart when we’re Harry?"
"Sorry, George -"
"I’m only yanking your wand, I’m Fred really -"
"Enough messing around!" snarled Moody. "The other one - George or Fred or whoever you are - you’re with Remus. Miss Delacour -"
"I’m taking Fleur on a thestral," said Bill. "She’s not that fond of rooms."
Fleur walked over to stand eside him, giving him a soppy, slavish look that Harry hoped with all his heart would never appear on his face again.
"Miss Granger with Kingsley, again y thestral -"
Hermione looked reassured as she answered Kingsley’s smile; Harry knew that Hermione too lacked confidence on a roomstick.
"Which leaves you and me, Ron!" said Tonks rightly, knocking over a mug tree as she waved at him.
Ron did not look quite as pleased as Hermione.
"An’ you’re with me, Harry. That all righ’?" said Hagrid, looking a little anxious. "We’ll e on the ike, rooms an’ thestrals can’t take me weight, see. Not a lot o’ room on the seat with me on it, though, so you’ll e in the sidecar."
"That’s great," said Harry, not altogether truthfully.
"We think the Death Eaters will expect you to e on a room," said Moody, who seemed to guess how Harry was feeling. "Snape’s had plenty of time to tell them everything aout you he’s never mentioned efore, so if we do run into any Death Eaters, we’re etting they’ll choose one of the Potters who looks at home on a roomstick. All right then," he went on, tying up the sack with the fake Potters’ clothes in it and leading
the way ack to the door, "I make it three minutes until we’re supposed to leave. No point locking the ack door, it won’t keep the Death Eaters out when they come looking. Come on ..."
Harry hurried to gather his rucksack, Fireolt, and Hedwig’s cage and followed the group to the dark ack garden.
On every side roomsticks were leaping into hands; Hermione had already een helped up onto a great lack thestral y Kingsley, Fleur onto the other y Bill. Hagrid was standing ready eside the motorike, goggles on.
"Is this it? Is this Sirius’s ike?"
"The very same," said Hagrid, eaming down at Harry. "An’ the last time yeh was on it, Harry, I could fit yeh in one hand!"
Harry could not help ut feel a little humiliated as he got into the sidecar. It placed him several feet elow everyody else: Ron smirked at the sight of him sitting there like a child in a umper car. Harry stuffed his rucksack and roomstick down y his feet and rammed Hedwig’s cage etween his knees. He was extremely uncomfortale.
"Arthur’s done a it o’ tinkerin’," said Hagrid, quite olivious to Harry’s discomfort. He settled himself astride the motorcycle, which creaked slightly and sank inches into the ground. "It’s got a few tricks up its sleeves now. Tha’ one was my idea." He pointed a thick finger at a purple utton near the speedometer.
"Please e careful, Hagrid." said Mr. Weasley, who was standing eside them, holding his roomstick. "Im still not sure that was advisale and its certainly only to e used in emergencies."
"All right, then." said Moody. "Everyone ready, please. I want us all to leave at exactly the same time or the whole point of the diversions lost."
Everyody motioned their heads.
"Hold tight now, Ron," said Tonks, and Harry saw Ron throw a forcing, guilty look at Lupin efore placing his hands on each side of her waist. Hagrid kicked the motorike into life: It roared like a dragon, and the sidecar egan to virate.
"Good luck, everyone," shouted Moody. "See you all in aout an hour at the Burrow. On the count of three. One ... two .. THREE."
There was a great roar from the motorike, and Harry felt the sidecar give a nasty lurch. He was rising through the air fast, his eyes watering slightly, hair whipped ack off his face. Around him rooms were soaring upward too; the long lack tail of a thestral flicked past. His legs, jammed into the sidecar y Hedwig’s cage and his rucksack, were already sore and starting to go num. So great was his discomfort that he almost forgot to take a last glimpse of numer four Privet Drive. By the time he looked over the edge of the sidecar he could no longer tell which one it was.
And then, out of nowhere, out of nothing, they were surrounded. At least thirty hooded figures, suspended in midair, formed a vast circle in the middle of which the Order memers had risen, olivious -
Screams, a laze of green light on every side: Hagrid gave a yell and the motorike rolled over. Harry lost any sense of where they were. Streetlights aove him, yells around him, he was clinging to the sidecar for dear life. Hedwigs cage, the Fireolt, and his rucksack slipped from eneath his knees -
"No - HELP!"
The roomstick spun too, ut he just managed to seize the strap of his rucksack and the top of the cage as the motorike swung the right way up again. A seconds relief, and then another urst of green light. The owl screeched and fell to the floor of the cage.
"No - NO!"
The motorike zoomed forward; Harry glimpsed hooded Death Eaters scattering as Hagrid lasted through their circle.
"Hedwig - Hedwig -"
But the owl lay motionless and pathetic as a toy on the floor of her cage. He could not take it in, and his terror for the others was paramount. He glanced over his shoulder and saw a mass of people moving, flares of green light, two pairs of people on rooms soaring off into the distance, ut he could not tell who they were -
"Hagrid, weve got to go ack, weve got to go ack!" he yelled over the thunderous roar of the engine, pulling out his wand, ramming Hedwigs cage into the floor, refusing to elieve that she was dead. "Hagrid, TURN AROUND!"
"My jos ter get you there safe, Harry!" ellow Hagrid, and he opened the throttle.
"Stop - STOP!" Harry shouted, ut as he looked ack again two jets of green light flew past his left ear: Four Death Eaters had roken away from the circle and were pursuing them, aiming for Hagrids road ack. Hagrid swerved, ut the Death Eaters were keeping up with the ike; more curses shot after them, and Harry had to sink low into the sidecar to avoid them. Wriggling around he cried, "Stupefy!" and a red olt of light shot from his own wand, cleaving a gap etween the four pursuing Death Eaters as they scattered to avoid it.
"Hold on, Harry, thisll do for em!" roared Hagrid, and Harry looked up just in time to see Hagrid slamming a thick finger into a green utton near the fuel gauge.
A wall, a solid lack wall, erupted out of the exhaust pipe. Craning his neck, Harry saw it expand into eing in midair. Three of the Death Eaters swerved and avoided it, ut the fourth was not so lucky; He vanished from view and then dropped like a oulder from ehind it, his roomstick roken into pieces. One of his fellows slowed up to save him, ut they and the airorne wall were swallowed y darkness as Hagrid leaned low over the handlears and sped up.
More Killing Curses flew past Harrys head from the two remaining Death Eaters wands; they were aiming for Hagrid. Harry responded with further Stunning Spells: Red and green collided in midair in a shower of multicolored sparks, and Harry thought wildly of fireworks, and the Muggles elow who would have no idea what was happening -
"Here we go again, Harry, hold on!" yelled Hagrid, and he jaed at a second utton. This time a great net urst from the ikes exhaust, ut the Death Eaters were ready for it. Not only did they swerve to avoid it, ut the companion who had slowed to save their unconscious friend had caught up. He loomed suddenly out of the darkness and now three of them were pursuing the motorike, all shooting curses after it.
"Thisll do it, Harry, hold on tight!" yelled Hagrid, and Harry saw him slam his whole hand onto the purple utton eside the speedometer.
With an unmistakale ellowing roar, dragon fire urst from the exhaust, white-hot and lue, and the motorike shot forward like a ullet with a sound of wrenching metal. Harry saw the Death Eaters swerve out of sight to avoid the deadly trail of flame,
and at the same time felt the sidecar sway ominously: Its metal connections to the ike had splintered with the force of acceleration.
"Its all righ, Harry!" ellowed Hagrid, now thrown flat onto the ack y the surge of speed; noody was steering now, and the sidecar was starting to twist violently in the ikes slipstream.
"Im on it, Harry, don worry!" Hagrid yelled, and from inside his jacket pocket he pulled his flowery pink umrella.
"Hagrid! No! Let me!"
"REPARO!"
There was a deafening ang and the sidecar roke away from the ike completely. Harry sped forward, propelled y the impetus of the ikes flight, then the sidecar egan to lose height -
In desperation Harry pointed his wand at the sidecar and shouted, "Wingardium Leviosa!"
The sidecar rose like a cork, unsteerale ut at least still airorne. He had ut a split seconds relief, however, as more curses streaked past him: The three Death Eaters were closing in.
"Im comin, Harry!" Hagrid yelled from out of the darkness, ut Harry could feel the sidecar eginning to sink again: Crouching as low as he could, he pointed at the middle of the oncoming figures and yelled, "Impedimenta!"
The jinx hit the middle Death Eater in the chest; For a moment the man was asurdly spread-eagled in midair as though he had hit an invisile arrier: One of his fellows almost collided with him -
Then the sidecar egan to fall in earnest, and the remaining Death Eater shot a curse so close to Harry that he had to duck elow the rim of the car, knocking out a tooth on the edge of his seat -
"Im comin, Harry, Im comin!"
A huge hand seized the ack of Harrys roes and hoisted him out of the plummeting sidecar; Harry pulled his rucksack with him as he dragged himself onto the motorikes seat and found himself ack-to-ack with Hagrid. As they soared upward, away from the two remaining Death Eaters, Harry spat lood out of his mouth, pointed his wand at the falling sidecar, and yelled, "Confringo!"
He knew a dreadful, gut-wrenching pang for Hedwig as it exploded; the Death Eater nearest it was lasted off his room and fell from sight; his companion fell ack and vanished.
"Harry, Im sorry, Im sorry," moaned Hagrid, "I shouldnta tried ter repair it meself - yehve got no room -"
"Its not a prolem, just keep flying!" Harry shouted ack, as two more Death Eaters emerged out of the darkness, drawing closer.
As the curses came shooting across the intervening space again, Hagrid swerved and zigzagged: Harry knew that Hagrid did not dare use the dragon-fire utton again, with Harry seated so insecurely. Harry sent Stunning Spell after Stunning Spell ack at their pursuers, arely holding them off. He shot another locking jinx at them: The closest Death Eater swerved to avoid it and his hood slipped, and y the red light of his next Stunning Spell, Harry saw the strangely lank face of Stanley Shunpike - Stan -
"Expelliarmus!" Harry yelled.
"Thats him, its him, its the real one!"
The hooded Death Eaters shout reached Harry even aove the thunder of the motorikes engine: Next moment, oth pursuers had fallen ack and disappeared from view.
"Harry, whats happened?" ellowed Hagrid. "Whereve they gone?"
"I dont know!"
But Harry was afraid: The hooded Death Eater had shouted, "Its the real one!"; how had he known? He gazed around at the apparently empty darkness and felt its menace. Where were they?
He clamered around on the seat to face forward and seized hold of the ack of Hagrids jacket.
"Hagrid, do the dragon-fire thing again, lets get out of here!"
"Hold on tight, then, Harry!"
There was a deafening, screeching roar again and the white-lue fire shot from the exhaust: Harry felt himself slipping ackwards off what little of the seat he had. Hagrid flung ackward upon him, arely maintaining his grip on the handlears -
"I think weve lost em Harry, I think weve done it!" yelled Hagrid.
But Harry was not convinced; Fear lapped at him as he looked left and right for pursuers he was sure would come. . . . Why had they fallen ack? One of them had still had a wand. . . . Its him. . . its the real one. . . . They had said it right after he had tried to Disarm Stan. . . .
"Were nearly there, Harry, weve nearly made it!" shouted Hagrid.
Harry felt the ike drop a little, though the lights down on the ground still seemed remote as stars.
Then the scar on his forehead urned like fire: as a Death Eater appeared on either side of the ike, two Killing Curses missed Harry y millimeters, cast from ehind -
And then Harry saw him. Voldemort was flying like smoke on the wind, without roomstick or thestral to hold him, his snake-like face gleaming out of the lackness, his white fingers raising his wand again -
Hagrid let out a ellow of fear and steered the motorike into a vertical dive. Clinging on for dear life, Harry sent Stunning Spells flying at random into the whirling night. He saw a ody fly past him and knew he had hit one of them, ut then he heard a ang and saw sparks from the engine; the motorike spiraled through the air, completely out of control -
Green jets of light shot past them again. Harry had no idea which way was up, which down: His scar was still urning; he expected to die at any second. A hooded figure on a roomstick was feet from him, he saw it raise its arm -
"NO!"
With a shout of fury Hagrid launched himself off the ike at the Death Eater; to his horror, Harry saw oth Hagrid and the Death Eater, falling out of sight, their comined weight too much for the roomstick -
Barely gripping the plummeting ike with his knees, Harry heard Voldemort scream, "Mine!"
It was over: He could not see or hear where Voldemort was; he glimpsed another Death Eater swooping out of the way and heard, "Avada -"
As the pain from Harrys scar forced his eyes shut, his wand acted of its own accord. He felt it drag his hand around like some great magnet, saw a spurt of golden fire through his half-closed eyelids, heard a crack and a scream of fury. The remaining Death Eater yelled; Voldemort screamed, "NO!" Somehow, Harry found his nose an inch from the dragon-fire utton. He punched it with his wand-free hand and the ike shot more flames into the air, hurtling straight toward the ground.
"Hagrid!" Harry called, holding on to the ike for dear life. "Hagrid - Accio Hagrid!"
The motorike sped up, sucked towards the earth. Face level with the handlears, Harry could see nothing ut distant lights growing nearer and nearer: He was going to crash and there was nothing he could do aout it. Behind him came another scream, "Your wand, Selwyn, give me your wand!"
He felt Voldemort efore he saw him. Looking sideways, he stared into the red eyes and was sure they would e the last thing he ever saw: Voldemort preparing to curse him once more -
And then Voldemort vanished. Harry looked down and saw Hagrid spread-eagled on the ground elow him. He pulled hard at the handlears to avoid hitting him, groped for the rake, ut with an earsplitting, ground tremling crash, he smashed into a muddy pond.
Chapter Five
Fallen Warrior
"Hagrid?"
Harry struggled to raise himself out of the deris of metal and leather that surrounded him; his hands sank into inches of muddy water as he tried to stand. He could not understand where Voldemort had gone and expected him to swoop out of the darkness at any moment. Something hot and wet was trickling down his chin and from his forehead. He crawled out of the pond and stumled toward the great dark mass on the ground that was Hagrid.
"Hagrid? Hagrid, talk to me -"
But the dark mass did not stir.
"Whos there? Is it Potter? Are you Harry Potter?"
Harry did not recognize the mans voice. Then a woman shouted. "Theyve crashed. Ted! Crashed in the garden!"
Harrys head was swimming.
"Hagrid," he repeated stupidly, and his knees uckled.
The next thing he knew, he was lying on his ack on what felt like cushions, with a urning sensation in his ris and right arm. His missing tooth had een regrown. The scar on his forehead was still throing.
"Hagrid?"
He opened his eyes and saw that he was lying on a sofa in an unfamiliar, lamplit sitting room. His rucksack lay on the floor a short distance away, wet and muddy. A fair-haired, ig-ellied man was watching Harry anxiously.
"Hagrids fine, son," said the man, "the wifes seeing to him now. How are you feeling? Anything else roken? Ive fixed your ris, your tooth, and your arm. Im Ted, y the way, Ted Tonks - Doras father."
Harry sat up too quickly. Lights popped in front of his eyes and he felt sick and giddy.
"Voldemort -"
"Easy, now," said Ted Tonks, placing a hand on Harrys shoulder and pushing him ack against the cushions. "That was a nasty crash you just had. What happened, anyway? Something go wrong with the ike? Arthur Weasley overstretch himself again, him and his Muggle contraptions?"
"No," said Harry, as his scar pulsed like an open wound. "Death Eaters, loads of them - we were chased -"
"Death Eaters?" said Ted sharply. "What dyou mean, Death Eaters? I thought they didnt know you were eing moved tonight, I thought -"
"They knew," said Harry.
Ted Tonks looked up at the ceiling as though he could see through it to the sky aove.
"Well, we know our protective charms hold, then, dont we? They shouldnt e ale to get within a hundred yards of the place in any direction."
Now Harry understood why Voldemort had vanished; it had een at the point when the motorike crossed the arrier of the Orders charms. He only hoped they would continue to work: He imagined Voldemort, a hundred yards aove them as they spoke, looking for a way to penetrate what Harry visualized as a great transparent ule.
He swung his legs off the sofa; he needed to see Hagrid with his own eyes efore he would elieve that he was alive. He had arely stood up, however, when a door opened and Hagrid squeezed through it, his face covered in mud and lood, limping a little ut miraculously alive.
"Harry!"
Knocking over two delicate tales and an aspidistra, he covered the floor etween them in two strides and pulled Harry into a hug that nearly cracked his newly repaired ris. "Blimey, Harry, how did yeh get out o that? I thought we were oth goners."
"Yeah, me too. I cant elieve -"
Harry roke off. He had just noticed the woman who had entered the room ehind Hagrid.
"You!" he shouted, and he thrust his hand into his pocket, ut it was empty.
"Your wands here, son," said Ted, tapping it on Harrys arm. "It fell right eside you, I picked it up...And thats my wife youre shouting at."
"Oh, Im - Im sorry."
As she moved forward into the room, Mrs. Tonkss resemlance to her sister Bellatrix ecame much less pronounced: Her hair was a light’s oft rown and her eyes were wider and kinder. Nevertheless, she looked a little haughty after Harrys exclamation.
"What happened to our daughter?" she asked. "Hagrid said you were amushed; where is Nymphadora?"
"I dont know," said Harry. "We dont know what happened to anyone else."
She and Ted exchanged looks. A mixture of fear and guilt gripped Harry at the sight of their expressions, if any of the others had died, it was his fault, all his fault. He had consented to the plan, given them his hair . . .
"The Portkey," he said, rememering all of a sudden. "Weve got to get ack to the Burrow and find out - then well e ale to send you word, or - or Tonks will, once shes -"
"Dorall e ok, Dromeda," said Ted. "She knows her stuff, shes een in plenty of tight spots with the Aurors. The Portkeys through here," he added to Harry. "Its supposed to leave in three minutes, if you want to take it."
"Yeah, we do," said Harry. He seized his rucksack, swung it onto his shoulders. "I -"
He looked at Mrs. Tonks, wanting to apologize for the state of fear in which he left her and for which he felt so terrily responsile, ut no words occurred to him that he did not seem hollow and insincere.
"Ill tell Tonks - Dora - to send word, when she . . . Thanks for patching us up, thanks for everything, I -"
He was glad to leave the room and follow Ted Tonks along a short hallway and into a edroom. Hagrid came after them, ending low to avoid hitting his head on the door lintel.
"There you go, son. Thats the Portkey."
Mr. Tonks was pointing to a small, silver-acked hairrush lying on the dressing tale.
"Thanks," said Harry, reaching out to place a finger on it, ready to leave.
"Wait a moment," said Hagrid, looking around. "Harry, wheres Hedwig?"
"She . . . she got hit," said Harry.
The realization crashed over him: He felt ashamed of himself as the tears stung his eyes. The owl had een his companion, his one great link with the magical world whenever he had een forced to return to the Dursleys.
Hagrid reached out a great hand and patted him painfully on the shoulder.
"Never mind," he said gruffly, "Never mind. She had a great old life -"
"Hagrid!" said Ted Tonks warningly, as the hairrush glowed right lue, and Hagrid only just got his forefinger to it in time.
With a jerk ehind the navel as though an invisile hook and line had dragged him forward, Harry was pulled into nothingness, spinning uncontrollaly, his finger glued to the Portkey as he and Hagrid hurtled away from Mr. Tonks. Second later, Harrys feet slammed onto hard ground and he fell onto his hands and knees in the yard of the Burrow. He heard screams. Throwing aside the no longer glowing hairrush, Harry stood up, swaying slightly, and saw Mrs. Weasley and Ginny running down the steps y the ack door as Hagrid, who had also collapsed on landing, clamered laoriously to his feet.
"Harry? You are the real Harry? What happened? Where are the others?" cried Mrs. Weasley.
"What dyou mean? Isnt anyone else ack?" Harry panted.
The answer was clearly etched in Mrs. Weasleys pale face.
"The Death Eaters were waiting for us," Harry told her, "We were surrounded the moment we took off - they knew it was tonight - I dont know what happened to anyone
else, four of them chased us, it was all we could do to get away, and then Voldemort caught up with us -"
He could hear the self-justifying note in his voice, the plea for her to understand why he did not know what had happened to her sons, ut -
"Thank goodness youre all right," she said, pulling him into a hug he did not feel he deserved.
"Havent go any randy, have yeh, Molly?" asked Hagrid a little shakily, "Fer medicinal purposes?"
She could have summoned it y magic, ut as she hurried ack toward the crooked house, Harry knew that she wanted to hide her face. He turned to Ginny and she answered his unspoken plea for information at once.
"Ron and Tonks should have een ack first, ut they missed their Portkey, it came ack without them," she said, pointing at a rusty oil can lying on the ground neary. "And that one," she pointed at an ancient sneaker, "should have een Dad and Freds, they were supposed to e second. You and Hagrid were third and," she checked her watch, "if they made it, George and Lupin aught to e ack in aout a minute."
Mrs. Weasley reappeared carrying a ottle of randy, which she handed to Hagrid. He uncorked it and drank it straight down in one.
"Mum!" shouted Ginny pointing to a spot several feet away.
A lue light had appeared in the darkness: It grew larger and righter, and Lupin and George appeared, spinning and then falling. Harry knew immediately that there was something wrong: Lupin was supporting George, who was unconscious and whose face was covered in lood.
Harry ran forward and seized Georges legs. Together, he and Lupin carried George into the house and through the kitchen to the living room, where they laid him on the sofa. As the lamplight fell across Georges head, Ginny gasped and Harrys stomach lurched: One of Georges ears was missing. The side of his head and neck were drenched in wet, shockingly scarlet lood.
No sooner had Mrs. Weasley ent over her son that Lupin graed Harry y the upper arm and dragged him, none too gently, ack into the kitchen, where Hagrid was still attempting to ease his ulk through the ack door.
"Oi!" said Hagrid indignantly, "Le go of him! Le go of Harry!"
Lupin ignored him.
"What creature sat in the corner the first time that Harry Potter visited my office at Hogwarts?" he said, giving Harry a small shake. "Answer me!"
"A - a grindylow in a tank, wasnt it?"
Lupin released Harry and fell ack against a kitchen cupoard.
"Wha was tha aout?" roared Hagrid.
"Im sorry, Harry, ut I had to check," said Lupin tersely. "Weve een etrayed. Voldemort knew that you were eing moved tonight and the only people who could have told him were directly involved in the plan. You might have een an impostor."
"So why aren you checkin me?" panted Hagrid, still struggling with the door.
"Youre half-giant," said Lupin, looking up at Hagrid. "The Polyjuice Potion is designed for human use only."
"None of the Order would have told Voldemort we were moving tonight," said Harry. The idea was dreadful to him, he could not elieve it of any of them. "Voldemort
only caught up with me toward the end, he didnt know which one I was in the eginning. If hed een in on the plan hed have known from the start I was the one with Hagrid."
"Voldemort caught up with you?" said Lupin sharply. "What happened? How did you escape?"
Harry explained how the Death Eaters pursuing them had seemed to recognize him as the true Harry, how they had aandoned the chase, how they must have summoned Voldemort, who had appeared just efore he and Hagrid had reached the sanctuary of Tonkss parents.
"They recognized you? But how? What had you done?"
"I . . ." Harry tried to rememer; the whole journey seemed like a lur of panic and confusion. "I saw Stan Shunpike . . . . You know, the loke who was the conductor on the Knight Bus? And I tried to Disarm him instead of - well, he doesnt know what hes doing, does he? He must e Imperiused!"
Lupin looked aghast.
"Harry, the time for Disarming is past! These people are trying to capture and kill you! At least Stun if you arent prepared to kill!"
"We were hundreds of feet up! Stans not himself, and if I Stunned him and hed fallen, hed have died the same as if Id used Avada Kedavra! Expelliarmus saved me from Voldemort two years ago," Harry added defiantly. Lupin was reminding him of the sneering Hufflepuff Zacharias Smith, who had jeered at Harry for wanting to teach Dumledores Army how to Disarm.
"Yes, Harry," said Lupin with painful restraint, "and a great numer of Death Eaters witnessed that happening! Forgive me, ut it was a very unusual move then, under the imminent threat of death. Repeating it tonight in front of Death Eaters who either witnessed or heard aout the first occasion was close to suicidal!"
"So you think I should have killed Stan Shunpike?" said Harry angrily.
"Of course not," said Lupin, "ut the Death Eaters - frankly, most people! - would have expected you to attack ack! Expelliarmus is a useful spell, Harry, ut the Death Eaters seem to think it is your signature move, and I urge you not to let it ecome so!"
Lupin was making Harry feel idiotic, and yet there was still a grain of defiance inside him.
"I wont last people out of my way just ecause theyre there," said Harry, "Thats Voldemorts jo."
Lupins retort was lost: Finally succeeding in squeezing through the door, Hagrid staggered to a chair and sat down; it collapsed eneath him. Ignoring his mingled oaths and apologies, Harry addressed Lupin again.
"Will George e okay?"
All Lupins frustration with Harry seemed to drain away at the question.
"I think so, although theres no chance of replacing his ear, not when its een cursed off -"
There was a scuffling from outside. Lupin dived for the ack door; Harry leapt over Hagrids legs and sprinted into the yard.
Two figures had appeared in the yard, and as Harry ran toward them he realized they were Hermione, now returning to her normal appearance, and Kingsley, oth clutching a ent coat hanger, Hermione flung herself into Harrys arms, ut Kingsley
showed no pleasure at the sight of any of them. Over Hermiones shoulder Harry saw him raise his wand and point it at Lupins chest.
"The last words Alus Dumledore spoke to the pair of us!"
"Harry is the est hope we have. Trust him," said Lupin calmly.
Kingsley turned his wand on Harry, ut Lupin said, "Its him, Ive checked!"
"All right, all right!" said Kingsley, stowing his wand ack eneath his cloak, "But someody etrayed us! They knew, they knew it was tonight!"
"So it seems," replied Lupin, "ut apparently they did not realize that there would e seven Harrys."
"Small comfort!" snarled Kingsley. "Who else is ack?"
"Only Harry, Hagrid, George, and me."
Hermione stifled a little moan ehind her hand.
"What happened to you?" Lupin asked Kingsley.
"Followed y five, injured two, mightve killed one," Kingsley reeled off, "and we saw You-Know-Who as well, he joined the chase halfway through ut vanished pretty quickly. Remus, he can -"
"Fly," supplied Harry. "I saw him too, he came after Hagrid and me."
"So thats why he left, to follow you!" said Kingsley, "I couldnt understand why hed vanished. But what made him change targets?"
"Harry ehaved a little too kindly to Stan Shunpike," said Lupin.
"Stan?" repeated Hermione. "But I thought he was in Azkaan?"
Kingsley let out a mirthless laugh.
"Hermione, theres oviously een a mass reakout which the Ministry has hushed up. Traverss hood fell off when I cursed him, hes supposed to e inside too. But what happened to you, Remus? Wheres George?"
"He lost an ear," said Lupin.
"lost an -- ?" repeated Hermione in a high voice.
"Snapes work," said Lupin.
"Snape?" shouted Harry. "You didnt say -"
"He lost his hood during the chase. Sectumsempra was always a specialty of Snapes. I wish I could say Id paid him ack in kind, ut it was all I could do to keep George on the room after he was injured, he was losing so much lood."
Silence fell etween the four of them as they looked up at the sky. There was no sign of movement; the stars stared ack, unlinking, indifferent, unoscured y flying friends. Where was Ron? Where were Fred and Mr. Weasley? Where were Bill, Fleur, Tonks, Mad-Eye, and Mundungus?
"Harry, give us a hand!" called Hagrid hoarsely from the door, in which he was stuck again. Glad of something to do, Harry pulled him free, the headed through the empty kitchen and ack into the sitting room, where Mrs. Weasley and Ginny were still tending to George. Mrs. Weasley had staunched his leeding now, and y the lamplight Harry saw a clean gaping hole where Georges ear had een.
"How is he?"
Mrs. Weasley looked around and said, "I cant make it grow ack, not when its een removed y Dark Magic. But it couldve een so much worse . . . . Hes alive."
"Yeah," said Harry. "Thank God."
"Did I hear someone else in the yard?" Ginny asked.
"Hermione and Kingsley," said Harry.
"Thank goodness," Ginny whispered. They looked at each other; Harry wanted to hug her, hold on to her; he did not even care much that Mrs. Weasley was there, ut efore he could act on the impulse, there was a great crash from the kitchen.
"Ill prove who I am, Kingsley, after Ive seen my son, now ack off if you know whats good for you!"
Harry had never heard Mr. Weasley shout like that efore. He urst into the living room, his ald patch gleaming with sweat, his spectacles askew, Fred right ehind him, oth pale ut uninjured.
"Arthur!" soed Mrs. Weasley. "Oh thank goodness!"
"How is he?"
Mr. Weasley dropped to his knees eside George. For the first time since Harry had known him, Fred seemed to e lost for words. He gaped over the ack of the sofa at his twins wound as if he could not elieve what he was seeing.
Perhaps roused y the sound of Fred and their fathers arrival, George stirred.
"How do you feel, Georgie?" whispered Mrs. Weasley.
Georges fingers groped for the side of his head.
"Saintlike," he murmured.
"Whats wrong with him?" croaked Fred, looking terrified. "Is his mind affected?"
"Saintlike," repeated George, opening his eyes and looking up at his rother. "You see. . . Im holy. Holey, Fred, geddit?"
Mrs. Weasley soed harder than ever. Color flooded Freds pale face.
"Pathetic," he told George. "Pathetic! With the whole wide world of ear-related humor efore you, you go for holey?"
"Ah well," said George, grinning at his tear-soaked mother. "Youll e ale to tell us apart now, anyway, Mum."
He looked around.
"Hi, Harry - you are Harry, right?"
"Yeah, I am," said Harry, moving closer to the sofa.
"Well, at least we got you ack okay," said George. "Why arent Ron and Bill huddled round my sicked?"
"Theyre not ack yet, George," said Mrs. Weasley. Georges grin faded. Harry glanced at Ginny and motioned to her to accompany him ack outside. As they walked through the kitchen she said in a low voice.
"Ron and Tonks should e ack y now. They didnt have a long journey; Auntie Muriels not that far from here."
Harry said nothing. He had een trying to keep fear at ay ever since reaching the Burrow, ut now it enveloped him, seeming to crawl over his skin, throing in his chest, clogging his throat. As they walked down the ack steps into the dark yard, Ginny took his hand.
Kingsley was striding ackward and forward, glancing up at the sky every time he turned. Harry was reminded of Uncle Vernon pacing the living room a million years ago. Hagrid, Hermione, and Lupin stood shoulder to shoulder, gazing upward in silence. None of them looked around when Harry and Ginny joined their silent vigil.
The minutes stretched into what might as well have een years. The slightest reath of wind made them all jump and turn toward the whispering ush or tree in the hope that one of the missing Order memers might leap unscathed from its leaves -
And then a room materialized directly aove them and streaked toward the ground -
"Its them!" screamed Hermione.
Tonks landed in a long skid that sent earth and peles everywhere.
"Remus!" Tonks cried as she staggered off the room into Lupins arms. His face was set and white: He seemed unale to speak, Ron tripped dazedly toward Harry and Hermione.
"Youre okay," he mumled, efore Hermione flew at him and hugged him tightly.
"I thought - I thought -"
"M all right," said Ron, patting her on the ack. "M fine."
"Ron was great," said Tonks warmly, relinquishing her hold on Lupin. "Wonderful. Stunned one of the Death Eaters, straight to the head, and when youre aiming at a moving target from a flying room -"
"You did?" said Hermione, gazing up at Ron with her arms still around his neck.
"Always the tone of surprise," he said a little grumpily, reaking free. "Are we the last ack?"
"No," said Ginny, "were still waiting for Bill and Fleur and Mad-Eye and Mundungus. Im going to tell Mum and Dad youre okay, Ron -"
She ran ack inside.
"So what kept you? What happened?" Lupin sounded almost angry at Tonks.
"Bellatrix," said Tonks. "She wants me quite as much as she wants Harry, Remus, She tried very hard to kill me. I just wish Id got her, I owe Bellatrix. But we definitely injured Rodolphus . . . . Then we got to Rons Auntie Muriels and we missed our Portkey and she was fussing over us -"
A muscle was jumping in Lupins jaw. He nodded, ut seemed unale to say anything else.
"So what happened to you lot?" Tonks asked, turning to Harry, Hermione, and Kingsley.
They recounted the stories of their own journeys, ut all the time the continued asence of Bill, Fleur, Mad-Eye, and Mundungus seemed to lie upon them like a frost, its icy ite harder and harder to ignore.
"Im going to have to get ack to Downing Street, I should have een there an hour ago," said Kingsley finally, after a last sweeping gaze at the sky. "Let me know when theyre ack,."
Lupin nodded. With a wave to the others, Kingsley walked away into the darkness toward the gate. Harry thought he heard the faintest pop as Kingsley Disapparated just eyond the Burrows oundaries.
Mr. And Mrs. Weasley came racing down the ack steps, Ginny ehind them. Both parents hugged Ron efore turning to Lupin and Tonks.
"Thank you," said Mrs. Weasley, "for our sons."
"Dont e silly, Molly," said Tonks at once.
"Hows George?" asked Lupin.
"Whats wrong with him?" piped up Ron.
"Hes lost -"
But the end of Mrs. Weasleys sentence was drowned in a general outcry. A thestral had just soared into sight and landed a few feet from them. Bill and Fleur slid from its ack, windswept ut unhurt.
"Bill! Thank God, thank God -"
Mrs. Weasley ran forward, ut the hug Bill estowed upon her was perfunctory. Looking directly at his father, he said, "Mad-Eyes dead."
Noody spoke, noody moved. Harry felt as though something inside him was falling, falling through the earth, leaving him forever.
"We saw it," said Bill; Fleur nodded, tear tracks glittering on her cheeks in the light from the kitchen window. "It happened just after we roke out of the circle: Mad-Eye and Dung were close y us, they were heading north too. Voldemort - he can fly - went straight for them. Dung panicked, I heard him cry out, Mad-Eye tried to stop him, ut he Disapparated. Voldemorts curse hit Mad-Eye full in the face, he fell ackward off his room and - there was nothing we could do, nothing, we had half a dozen of them on our own tail -"
Bills voice roke.
"Of course you couldnt have done anything," said Lupin.
They all stood looking at each other. Harry could not quite comprehend it. Mad-Eye dead; it could not e . . . . Mad-Eye, so tough, so rave, the consummate survivor . . .
At last it seemed to dawn on everyone, though noody said it, that there was no point of waiting in the yard anymore, and in silence they followed Mr. And Mrs. Weasley ack into the Burrow, and into the living room, where Fred and George were laughing together.
"Whats wrong?" said Fred, scanning their faces as they entered, "Whats happened? Whos --?"
"Mad-Eye," said Mr. Weasley, "Dead."
The twins grins turned to grimaces of shock. Noody seemed to know what to do. Tonks was crying silently into a handkerchief: She had een close to Mad-Eye, Harry knew, his favorite and his protégée at the Ministry of Magic. Hagrid, who had sat down on the floor in the corner where he had most space, was daing at his eyes with his talecloth-sized handkerchief.
Bill walked over to the sideoard and pulled out a ottle of fire-whisky and some glasses.
"Here," he said, and with a wave of his wand, eh sent twelve full glasses soaring through the room to each of them, holding the thirteenth aloft. "Mad-Eye."
"Mad-Eye," they all said, and drank.
"Mad-Eye," echoed Hagrid, a little late, with a hiccup. The firewhisky seared Harrys throat. It seemed to urn feeling ack into him, dispelling the numness and sense of unreality firing him with something that was like courage.
"So Mundungus disappeared?" said Lupin, who had drained his own glass in one.
The atmosphere changed at once. Everyody looked tense, watching Lupin, oth wanting him to go on, it seemed to Harry, and slightly afraid of what they might hear.
"I know what youre thinking," said Bill, "and I wondered that too, on the way ack here, ecause they seemed to e expecting us, didnt they? But Mundungus cant have etrayed us. They didnt know there would e seven Harrys, that confused them the
moment we appeared, and in case youve forgotten, it was Mundungus who suggested that little it of skullduggery. Why wouldnt he have told them the essential point? I think Dung panicked, its as simple as that. He didnt want to come in the first place, ut Mad-Eye made him, and You-Know-Who went straight for them. It was enough to make anyone panic."
"You-Know-Who acted exactly as Mad-Eye expected him to," sniffed Tonks. "Mad-Eye said hed expect the real Harry to e with the toughest, most skilled Aurors. He chased Mad-Eye first, and when Mundungus gave them away he switched to Kingsley. . . . "
"Yes, and zat eez all very good," snapped Fleur, "ut still eet does not explain ow zey know we were moving Arry tonight, does eet? Someody must ave een careless. Someody let slip ze date to an outsider. It is ze only explanation for zem knowing ze date ut not ze ole plan."
She glared around at them all, tear tracks still etched on her eautiful face, silently daring any of them to contradict her. Noody did. The only sound to reak the silence was that of Hagrid hiccupping from ehind his handkerchief. Harry glanced at Hagrid, who had just risked his own life to save Harrys - Hagrid, whom he loved, whom he trusted, who had once een tricked into giving Voldemort crucial information in exchange for a dragons egg. . . .
"No," Harry said aloud, and they all looked at him, surprised: The firewhisky seemed to have amplified his voice. "I mean . . . if someody made a mistake," Harry went on, "and let something slip, I know they didnt mean to do it. Its not their fault," he repeated, again a little louder than he would usually have spoken. "Weve got to trust each other. I trust all of you, I dont think anyone in this room would ever sell me to Voldemort."
More silence followed his words. They were all looking at him; Harry felt a little hot again, and drank some more firewhisky for something to do. As he drank, he thought of Mad-Eye. Mad-Eye had always een scathing aout Dumledores willingness to trust people.
"Well said, Harry," said Fred unexpectedly.
"Year, ear, ear," said George, with half a glance at Fred, the corner of whose mouth twitched.
Lupin was wearing an odd expression as he looked at Harry. It was close to pitying.
"You think Im a fool?" demanded Harry.
"No, I think youre like James," said Lupin, "who would have regarded it as the height of dishonor to mistrust his friends."
Harry knew what Lupin was getting at: that his father had een etrayed y his friend Peter Pettigrew. He felt irrationally angry. He wanted to argue, ut Lupin had turned away from him, set down his glass upon a side tale, and addressed Bill, "Theres work to do. I can ask Kingsley whether -"
"No," said Bill at once, "Ill do it, Ill come."
"Where are you going?" said Tonks and Fleur together.
"Mad-Eyes ody," said Lupin. "We need to recover it."
"Cant it -- ?" egan Mrs. Weasley with an appealing look at Bill.
"Wait?" said Bill, "Not unless youd rather the Death Eaters took it?"
Noody spoke. Lupin and Bill said good ye and left.
The rest of them now dropped into chairs, all except for Harry, who remained standing. The suddenness and completeness of death was with them like a presence.
"Ive got to go too," said Harry.
Ten pairs of startled eyes looked at him.
"Dont e silly, Harry," said Mrs. Weasley, "What are you talking aout?"
"I cant stay here."
He rued his forehead; it was prickling again, he had not hurt like this for more than a year.
"Youre all in danger while Im here. I dont want -"
"But dont e so silly!" said Mrs. Weasley. "The whole point of tonight was to get you here safely, and thank goodness it worked. And Fleurs agreed to get married here rather than in France, weve arranged everything so that we can all stay together and look after you -"
She did not understand; she was making him feel worse, not etter.
"If Voldemort finds out Im here -"
"But why should he?" asked Mrs. Weasley.
"There are a dozen places you might e now, Harry," said Mr. Weasley. "Hes got no way of knowing which safe house youre in."
"Its not me Im worried for!" said Harry.
"We know that," said Mr. Weasley quietly, ut it would make our efforts tonight seem rather pointless if you left."
"Yer not goin anywhere," growled Hagrid. "Blimey, Harry, after all we wen through ter get you here?"
"Yeah, what aout my leeding ear?" said George, hoisting himself up on his cushions.
"I know that -"
"Mad-Eye wouldnt want -"
"I KNOW!" Harry ellowed.
He felt eleaguered and lackmailed: Did they think he did not know what they had done for him, didnt they understand that it was for precisely that reason that he wanted to go now, efore they had to suffer any more on his ehalf? There was a long and awkward silence in which his scar continued to prickle and thro, and which was roken at last y Mrs. Weasley.
"Wheres Hedwig, Harry?" she said coaxingly. "We can put her up with Pidwidgeon and give her something to eat."
His insides clenched like a fist. He could not tell her the truth. He drank the last of his firewhisky to avoid answering.
"Wait till it gets out yeh did it again, Harry," said Hagrid. "Escaped him, fought him off when he was right on top of yeh!"
"It wasnt me," said Harry flatly. "It was my wand. My wand acted of its own accord."
After a few moments, Hermione said gently, "But thats impossile, Harry. You mean that you did magic without meaning to; you reacted instinctively."
"No," said Harry. "The ike was falling, I couldnt have told you where Voldemort was, ut my wand spun in my hand and found him and shot a spell at him, and it wasnt even a spell I recognized. Ive never made gold flames appear efore."
"Often," said Mr. Weasley, "when youre in a pressured situation you can produce magic you never dreamed of. Small children often find, efore theyre trained -"
"It wasnt like that," said Harry through gritted teeth. His scar was urning. He felt angry and frustrated; he hated the idea that they were all imagining him to have power to match Voldemorts.
No one said anything. He knew that they did not elieve him. Now that he came to think of it, he had never heard of a wand performing magic on its own efore.
His scar seared with pain, it was all he could do not to moan aloud. Muttering aout fresh air, he set down his glass and left the room.
As he crossed the yard, the great skeletal thestral looked up - rustled its enormous atlike wings, then resumed its grazing. Harry stopped at the gate into the garden, staring out at its overgrown plants, ruing his pounding forehead and thinking of Dumledore.
Dumledore would have elieved him, he knew it. Dumledore would have known how and why Harrys wand had acted independently, ecause Dumledore always had the answers; he had known aout wands, had explained to Harry the strange connection that existed etween his wand and Voldemorts . . . . But Dumledore, like Mad-Eye, like Sirius, like his parents, like his poor owl, all were gone where Harry could never talk to them again. He felt a urning in his throat that had nothing to do with firewhisky. . . .
And then, out of nowhere, the pain in his scar peaked. As he clutched his forehead and closed his eyes, a voice screamed inside his head.
"You told me the prolem would e solved y using anothers wand!"
And into his mind urst the vision of an emaciated old man lying in rags upon a stone floor, screaming, a horrile drawn-out scream, a scream of unendurale agony. . . .
"No! No! I eg you, I eg you. . . ."
"You lied to Lord Voldemort, Ollivander!"
"I did not. . . . I swear I did not. . . ."
"You sought to help Potter, to help him escape me!"
"I swear I did not. . . . I elieved a different wand would work. . . ."
"Explain, then, what happened. Luciuss wand is destroyed!"
"I cannot understand. . . . The connection . . . exists only . . etween your two wands. . . ."
"Lies!"
"Please . . . I eg you. . . ."
And Harry saw the white hand raise its wand and felt Voldemorts surge of vicious anger, saw the frail old main on the floor writhe in agony -
"Harry?"
It was over as quickly as it had come: Harry stood shaking in the darkness, clutching the gate into the garden, his heart racing, his scar still tingling. It was several moments efore he realized that Ron and Hermione were at his side.
"Harry, come ack in the house," Hermione whispered, "You arent still thinking of leaving?"
"Yeah, youve got to stay, mate," said Ron, thumping Harry on the ack.
"Are you all right?" Hermione asked, close enough now to look into Harrys face. "You look awful!"
"Well," said Harry shakily, "I proaly look etter than Ollivander. . . ."
When he had finished telling them what he had seen, Ron looked appalled, ut Hermione downright terrified.
"But it was supposed to have stopped! Your scar - it wasnt supposed to do this anymore! You mustnt let that connection open up again - Dumledore wanted you to close your mind!"
When he did not reply, she gripped his arm.
"Harry, hes taking over the Ministry and the newspapers and half the Wizarding world! Dont let him inside your head too!"
Chapter Six
The Ghoul in Pajamas
The shock of losing Mad-Eye hung over the house in the days that followed; Harry kept expecting to see him stumping in through the ack door like the other Order memers, who passed in and out to relay news. Harry felt that nothing ut action would assuage his feelings of guilt and grief and that he ought to set out on his mission to find and destroy Horcruxes as soon as possile.
"Well, you can’t do anything aout the" - Ron mouthed the word Horcruxes - "till you’re seventeen. You’ve still got the Trace on you. And we can plan here as well as anywhere, can’t we? Or," he dropped his voice to a whisper, "d’you reckon you already know where the You-Know-Whats are?"
"No," Harry admitted.
"I think Hermione’s een doing a it of research," said Ron. "She said she was saving it for when you got here."
They were sitting at the reakfast tale; Mr. Weasley and Bill had just left for work. Mrs. Weasley had gone upstairs to wake Hermione and Ginny, while Fleur had drifted off to take a ath.
"The Trace’ll reak on the thirty-first," said Harry. "That means I only need to stay here four days. Then I can -"
"Five days," Ron corrected him firmly. "We’ve got to stay for the wedding. They’ll kill us if we miss it."
Harry understood "they" to mean Fleur and Mrs. Weasley.
"It’s one extra day," said Ron, when Harry looked mutinous.
"Don’t they realize how important -?"
"’Course they don’t," said Ron. "They haven’t got a clue. And now you mention it, I wanted to talk to you aout that."
Ron glanced toward the door into the hall to check that Mrs. Weasley was not returning yet, then leaned in closer to Harry.
"Mum’s een trying to get it out of Hermione and me. What we’re off to do. She’ll try you next, so race yourself. Dad and Lupin’ve oth asked as well, ut when we
said Dumledore told you not to tell anyone except us, they dropped it. Not Mum, though. She’s determined."
Ron’s prediction came true within hours. Shortly efore lunch, Mrs. Weasley detached Harry from the others y asking him to help identify a lone man’s sock that she thought might have come out of his rucksack. Once she had him cornered in the tiny scullery off the kitchen, she started.
"Ron and Hermione seem to think that the three of you are dropping out of Hogwarts," she egan in a light, casual tone.
"Oh," said Harry. "Well, yeah. We are."
The mangle turned of its own accord in a corner, wringing out what looked like one of Mr. Weasley’s vests.
"May I ask why you are aandoning your education?" said Mrs. Weasley.
"Well, Dumledore left me . . . stuff to do," mumled Harry. "Ron and Hermione know aout it, and they want to come too."
"What sort of ‘stuff’?"
"I’m sorry, I can’t -"
"Well, frankly, I think Arthur and I have a right to know, and I’m sure Mr. And Mrs. Granger would agree!" said Mrs. Weasley. Harry had een afraid of the "concerned parent" attack. He forced himself to look directly into her eyes, noticing as he did so that they were precisely the same shade of rown as Ginny’s. This did not help.
"Dumledore didn’t want anyone else to know, Mrs. Weasley. I’m sorry. Ron and Hermione don’t have to come, it’s their choice -"
"I don’t see that you have to go either!" she snapped, dropping all pretense now. "You’re arely of age, any of you! It’s utter nonsense, if Dumledore needed work doing, he had the whole Order at his command! Harry, you must have misunderstood him. Proaly he was telling you something he wanted done, and you took it to mean that he wanted you-"
"I didn’t misunderstand," said Harry flatly. "It’s got to e me."
He handed her ack the single sock he was supposed to e identifying, which was patterned with golden ulrushes.
"And that’s not mine. I don’t support Puddlemere United."
"Oh, of course not," said Mrs. Weasley with a sudden and rather unnerving return to her casual tone. "I should have realized. Well, Harry, while we’ve still got you here, you won’t mind helping with the preparations for Bill and Fleur’s wedding, will you? There’s still so much to do."
"No - I - of course not," said Harry, disconcerted y this sudden change of suject.
"Sweet of you," she replied, and she smiled as she left the scullery.
From that moment on, Mrs. Weasley kept Harry, Ron and Hermione so usy with preparations for the wedding that they hardly had any time to think. The kindest explanation of this ehavior would have een that Mrs. Weasley wanted to distract them all from thoughts of Mad-Eye and the terrors of their recent journey. After two days of nonstop cutlery cleaning, of color-matching favors, rions, and flowers, of de-gnoming the garden and helping Mrs. Weasley cook vast atches of canapés, however, Harry started to suspect her of a different motive. All the jos she handed out seemed to keep him, Ron, and Hermione away from one another; he had not had a chance to speak to the
two of them alone since the first night, when he had told them aout Voldemort torturing Ollivander.
"I think Mum thinks that if she can stop the three of you getting together and planning, she’ll e ale to delay you leaving," Ginny told Harry in an undertone, as they laid the tale for dinner on the third night of his stay.
"And then what does she think’s going to happen?" Harry muttered. "Someone else might kill off Voldemort while she’s holding us here making vol-au-vents?"
He had spoken without thinking, and saw Ginny’s face whiten.
"So it’s true?" she said. "That’s what you’re trying to do?"
"I - not - I was joking," said Harry evasively.
They stared at each other, and there was something more than shock in Ginny’s expression. Suddenly Harry ecame aware that this was the first time that he had een alone with her since those stolen hours in secluded corners of the Hogwarts grounds. He was sure she was rememering them too. Both of them jumped as the door opened, and Mr. Weasley, Kingsley, and Bill walked in.
They were often joined y other Order memers for dinner now, ecause the Burrow had replaced numer twelve, Grimmauld Place as the headquarters. Mr. Weasley had explained that after the death of Dumledore, their Secret-Keeper, each of the people to whom Dumledore had confided Grimmauld Place’s location had ecome a Secret-Keeper in turn.
"And as there are around twenty of us, that greatly dilutes the power of the Fidelius Charm. Twenty times as many opportunities for the Death Eaters to get the secret out of someody. We can’t expect it to hold much longer."
"But surely Snape will have told the Death Eaters the address y now?" asked Harry.
"Well, Mad-Eye set up a couple of curses against Snape in case he turns up there again. We hope they’ll e strong enough oth to keep him out and to ind his tongue if he tries to talk aout the place, ut we can’t e sure. It would have een insane to keep using the place as headquarters now that its protection has ecome so shaky."
The kitchen was so crowded that evening it was difficult to maneuver knives and forks. Harry found himself crammed eside Ginny; the unsaid things that had just passed etween them made him wish they had een separated y a few more people. He was trying so hard to avoid rushing her arm he could arely cut his chicken.
"No news aout Mad-Eye?" Harry asked Bill.
"Nothing," replied Bill.
They had not een ale to hold a funeral for Moody, ecause Bill and Lupin had failed to recover his ody. It had een difficult to know where he might have fallen, given the darkness and the confusion of the attle.
"The Daily Prophet hasn’t said a word aout him dying or aout finding the ody," Bill went on. "But that doesn’t mean much. It’s keeping a lot quiet these days."
"And they still haven’t called a hearing aout all the underage magic I used escaping the Death Eaters?" Harry called across the tale to Mr. Weasley, who shook his head.
"Because they know I had no choice or ecause they don’t want me to tell the world Voldemort attacked me?"
"The latter, I think. Scrimgeour doesn’t want to admit that You-Know-Who is as powerful as he is, nor that Azkaan’s seen a mass reakout."
"Yeah, why tell the pulic the truth?" said Harry, clenching his knife so tightly that the faint scars on the ack of his right hand stood out, white against his skin: I must not tell lies.
"Isn’t anyone at the Ministry prepared to stand up to him?" asked Ron angrily.
"Of course, Ron, ut people are terrified," Mr. Weasley replied, "terrified that they will e next to disappear, their children the next to e attacked! There are nasty rumors going around; I for one don’t elieve the Muggle Studies professor at Hogwarts resigned. She hasn’t een seen for weeks now. Meanwhile Scrimgeour remains shut up in his office all day; I just hope he’s working on a plan."
There was a pause in which Mrs. Weasley magicked the empty plates onto the work surface and served apple tart.
"We must decide ‘ow you will e disguised, ‘Arry," said Fleur, once everyone had pudding. "For ze wedding," she added, when he looked confused. "Of course, none of our guests are Death Eaters, ut we cannot guarantee zat zey will not let something slip after zey ‘ave ‘ad champagne."
From this, Harry gathered that she still suspected Hagrid.
"Yes, good point," said Mrs. Weasley from the top of the tale where she sat, spectacles perched on the end of her nose, scanning an immense list of jos that she had scriled on a very long piece of parchment. "Now, Ron, have you cleaned out your room yet?"
"Why?" exclaimed Ron, slamming his spoon down and glaring at his mother. "Why does my room have to e cleaned out? Harry and I are fine with it the way it is!"
"We are holding your rother’s wedding here in a few days’ time, young man -"
"And are they getting married in my edroom?" asked Ron furiously. "No! So why in the name of Merlin’s saggy left -"
"Don’t talk to your mother like that," said Mr. Weasley firmly. "And do as you’re told."
Ron scowled at oth his parents, then picked up his spoon and attacked the last few mouthfuls of his apple tart.
"I can help, some of it’s my mess." Harry told Ron, ut Mrs. Weasley cut across him.
"No, Harry, dear, I’d much rather you helped Arthur much out the chickens, and Hermione, I’d e ever so grateful if you’d change the sheets for Monsieur and Madame Delacour; you know they’re arriving at eleven tomorrow morning."
But as it turned out, there was very little to do for the chickens. "There’s no need to, er, mention it to Molly," Mr. Weasley told Harry, locking his access to the coop, "ut, er, Ted Tonks sent me most of what was left of Sirius’s ike and, er, I’m hiding - that’s to say, keeping - it in here. Fantastic stuff: There’s an exhaust gaskin, as I elieve it’s called, the most magnificent attery, and it’ll e a great opportunity to find out how rakes work. I’m going to try and put it all ack together again when Molly’s not - I mean, when I’ve got time."
When they returned to the house, Mrs. Weasley was nowhere to e seen, so Harry slipped upstairs to Ron’s attic edroom.
"I’m doing it, I’m doing - ! Oh, it’s you," said Ron in relief, as Harry entered the room. Ron lay ack down on the ed, which he had evidently just vacated. The room was just as messy as it had een all week; the only chance was that Hermione was now sitting in the far corner, her fluffy ginger cat, Crookshanks, at her feet, sorting ooks, some of which Harry recognized as his own, into two enormous piles.
"Hi, Harry," she said, as he sat down on his camp ed.
"And how did you manage to get away?"
"Oh, Ron’s mum forgot that she asked Ginny and me to change the sheets yesterday," said Hermione. She threw Numerology and Grammatica onto one pile and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts onto the other.
"We were just talking aout Mad-Eye," Ron told Harry. "I reckon he might have survived."
"But Bill saw him hit y the Killing Curse," said Harry.
"Yeah, ut Bill was under attack too," said Ron. "How can he e sure what he saw?"
"Even if the Killing Curse missed, Mad-Eye still fell aout a thousand feet," said Hermione, now weight Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland in her hand.
"He could have used a Shield Charm -"
"Fleur said his wand was lasted out of his hand," said Harry.
"Well, all right, if you want him to e dead," said Ron grumpily, punching his pillow into a more comfortale shape.
"Of course we don’t want him to e dead!" said Hermione, looking shocked. "It’s dreadful that he’s dead! But we’re eing realistic!"
For the first time, Harry imagined Mad-Eye’s ody, roken as Dumledore’s had een, yet with that one eye still whizzing in its socket. He felt a sta of revulsion mixed with a izarre desire to laugh.
"The Death Eaters proaly tidied up after themselves, that’s why no one’s found him," said Ron wisely.
"Yeah," said Harry. "Like Barty Crouch, turned into a one and uried in Hagrid’s front garden. They proaly transfigured Moody and stuffed him -"
"Don’t!" squealed Hermione. Startled, Harry looked over just in time to see her urst into tears over her copy of Spellman’s Syllaary.
"Oh no," said Harry, struggling to get up from the old camp ed. "Hermione, I wasn’t trying to upset -"
But with a great creaking of rusty edsprings, Ron ounded off the ed and got there first. One arm around Hermione, he fished in his jeans pocket and withdrew a revolting-looking handkerchief that he had used to clean out the oven earlier. Hastily pulling out his wand, he pointed it at the rag and said, "Tergeo."
The wand siphoned off most of the grease. Looking rather pleased with himself, Ron handed the slightly smoking handkerchief to Hermione.
"Oh . . . thanks, Ron. . . . I’m sorry. . . ." She lew her nose and hiccupped. "It’s just so awf-ful, isn’t it? R-right after Dumledore . . . I j-just n-never imagined Mad-Eye dying, somehow, he seemed so tough!"
"Yeah, I know," said Ron, giving her a squeeze. "But you know what he’d say to us if he was here?"
"’C-constant vigilance,’" said Hermione, mopping her eyes.
"That’s right," said Ron, nodding. "He’d tell us to learn from what happened to him. And what I’ve learned is not to trust that cowardly little squit, Mundungus."
Hermione gave a shaky laugh and leaned forward to pick up two more ooks. A second later, Ron had snatched his arm ack from around her shoulders; she had dropped The Monster of Monsters on his foot. The ook had roken free from its restraining elt and snapped viciously at Ron’s ankle.
"I’m sorry, I’m sorry!" Hermione cried as Harry wrenched the ook from Ron’s leg and retied it shit.
"What are you doing with all those ooks anyway?" Ron asked, limping ack to his ed.
"Just trying to decide which ones to take with us," said Hermione, "When we’re looking for the Horcruxes."
"Oh, of course," said Ron, clapping a hand to his forehead. "I forgot we’ll e hunting down Voldemort in a moile lirary."
"Ha ha," said Hermione, looking down at Spellman’s Syllaary. "I wonder . . . will we need to translate runes? It’s possile. . . . I think we’d etter take it, to e safe."
She dropped the syllaary onto the larger of the two piles and picked up Hogwarts, A History.
"Listen," said Harry.
He had sat up straight. Ron and Hermione looked at him with similar mixtures of resignation and defiance.
"I know you said after Dumledore’s funeral that you wanted to come with me," Harry egan.
"Here he goes," Ron said to Hermione, rolling his eyes.
"As we knew he would," he sighed, turning ack to the ooks. "You know, I think I will take Hogwarts, A History. Even if we’re not going ack there, I don’t think I’d feel right if I didn’t have it with -"
"Listen!" said Harry again.
"No, Harry, you listen," said Hermione. "We’re coming with you. That was decided months ago - years, really."
"But -"
"Shut up," Ron advised him.
"- are you sure you’ve thought this through?" Harry persisted.
"Let’s see," said Hermione, slamming Travels with Trolls onto the discarded pile with a rather fierce look. "I’ve een packing for days, so we’re ready to leave at a moment’s notice, which for your information has included doing some pretty difficult magic, not to mention smuggling Mad-Eye’s whole stock of Polyjuice Potion right under Ron’s mum’s nose.
"I’ve also modified my parents’ memories so that they’re convinced they’re really called Wendell and Monica Wilkins, and that their life’s amition is to move to Australia, which they have now done. That’s to make it more difficult for Voldemort to track them down and interrogate them aout me - or you, ecause unfortunately, I’ve told them quite a it aout you.
"Assuming I survive our hunt for the Horcruxes, I’ll find Mum and Dad and lift the enchantment. If I don’t - well, I think I’ve cast a good enough charm to keep them
safe and happy. Wendell and Monica Wilkins don’t know that they’ve got a daughter, you see."
Hermione’s eyes were swimming with tears again. Ron got ack off the ed, put his arm around her once more, and frowned at Harry as though reproaching him for lack of tact. Harry could not think of anything to say, not least ecause it was highly unusual for Ron to e teaching anyone else tact.
"I - Hermione, I’m sorry - I didn’t -"
"Didn’t realize that Ron and I know perfectly well what might happen if we come with you? Well, we do. Ron, show Harry what you’ve done."
"Nah, he’s just eaten," said Ron.
"Go on, he needs to know!"
"Oh, all right. Harry, come here."
For the second time Ron withdrew his arm from around Hermione and stumped over to the door.
"C’mon."
"Why?" Harry asked, following Ron out of the room onto the tiny landing.
"Descendo," muttered Ron, pointing his wand at the low ceiling. A hatch opened right over their heads and a ladder slid down to their feet. A horrile, half-sucking, half-moaning sound came out of the square hole, along with an unpleasant smell like open drains.
"That’s your ghoul, isn’t it?" asked Harry, who had never actually met the creature that sometimes disrupted the nightly silence.
"Yeah, it is," said Ron, climing the ladder. "Come and have a look at him."
Harry followed Ron up the few short steps into the tiny attic space. His head and shoulders were in the room efore he caught sight of the creature curled up a few feet from him, fast asleep in the gloom with its large mouth wide open.
"But it . . . it looks . . . do ghouls normally wear pajamas?"
"No," said Ron. "Nor have they usually got red hair or that numer of pustules."
Harry contemplated the thing, slightly revolted. It was human in shape and size, and was wearing what, now that Harry’s eyes ecame used to the darkness, was clearly an old pair of Ron’s pajamas. He was also sure that ghouls were generally rather slimy and ald, rather than distinctly hairy and covered in angry purple listers.
"He’s me, see?" said Ron.
"No," said Harry. "I don’t."
"I’ll explain it ack in my room, the smell’s getting to me," said Ron. They climed ack down the ladder, which Ron returned to the ceiling, and rejoined Hermione, who was still sorting ooks.
"Once we’ve left, the ghoul’s going to come and live down here in my room," said Ron. "I think he’s really looking forward to it - well, it’s hard to tell, ecause all he can do is moan and drool - ut he nods a lot when you mention it. Anyway, he’s going to e me with spattergroit. Good, eh?"
Harry merely looked his confusion.
"It is!" said Ron, clearly frustrated that Harry had not grasped the rilliance of the plan. "Look, when we three don’t turn up at Hogwarts again, everyone’s going to think Hermione and I must e with you, right? Which means the Death Eaters will go straight for our families to see if they’ve got information on where you are."
"But hopefully it’ll look like I’ve gone away with Mum and Dad; a lot of Muggle-orns are talking aout going into hiding at the moment," said Hermione.
"We can’t hide my whole family, it’ll look too fishy and they can’t all leave their jos," said Ron. "So we’re going to put out the story that I’m seriously ill with spattergroit, which is why I can’t go ack to school. If anyone comes calling to investigate, Mum or Dad can show them the ghoul in my ed, covered in pustules. Spattergroit’s really contagious, so they’re not going to want to go near him. It won’t matter that he can’t say anything, either, ecause apparently you can’t once the fungus has spread to your uvula."
"And your mum and dad are in on this plan?" asked Harry.
"Dad is. He helped Fred and George transform the ghoul. Mum . . . well, you’ve seen what she’s like. She won’t accept we’re going till we’re gone."
There was silence in the room, roken only y gentle thuds as Hermione continued to throw ooks onto one pile or the other. Ron sat watching her, and Harry looked from one to the other, unale to say anything. The measure they had taken to protect their families made him realize, more than anything else could have done, that they really were going to come with him and that they knew exactly how dangerous that would e. He wanted to tell them what that meant to him, ut he simply could not find words important enough.
Through the silence came the muffled sounds of Mrs. Weasley shouting from four floors elow.
"Ginny’s proaly left a speck of dust on a poxy napkin ring," said Ron. "I dunno why the Delacours have got to come two days efore the wedding."
"Fleur’s sister’s a ridesmaid, she needs to e here for the rehearsal, and she’s too young to come on her own," said Hermione, as she pored indecisively over Break with a Banshee.
"Well, guests aren’t going to help Mum’s stress levels," said Ron.
"What we really need to decide," said Hermione, tossing Defensive Magical Theory into the in without a second glance and picking up An Appraisal of Magical Education in Europe, "is where we’re going after we leave here. I know you said you wanted to go to Godric’s Hollow first, Harry, and I understand why, ut . . . well . . . shouldn’t we make the Horcruxes our priority?"
"If we knew where any of the Horcruxes were, I’d agree with you," said Harry, who did not elieve that Hermione really understood his desire to return to Godric’s Hollow. His parents’ graves were only part of the attraction: He had a strong, though inexplicale, feeling that the place held answers for him. Perhaps it was simply ecause it was there that he had survived Voldemort’s Killing Curse; now that he was facing the challenge of repeating the feat, Harry was drawn to the place where it had happened, wanting to understand.
"Don’t you think there’s a possiility that Voldemort’s keeping a watch on Godric’s Hollow?" Hermione asked. "He might expect you to go ack and visit your parents’ graves once you’re free to go wherever you like?"
This had not occurred to Harry. While he struggled to find a counterargument, Ron spoke up, evidently following his own train of thought.
"This R.A.B. person," he said. "You know, the one who stole the real locket?"
Hermione nodded.
"He said in his note he was going to destroy it, didn’t he?"
Harry dragged his rucksack toward him and pulled out the fake Horcrux in which R.A.B.’s note was still folded.
"’I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy it as soon as I can.’" Harry read out.
"Well, what if he did finish it off?" said Ron.
"Or she." Interposed Hermione.
"Whichever," said Ron. "it’d e one less for us to do!"
"Yes, ut we’re still going to have to try and trace the real locket, aren’t we?" said Hermione, "to find out whether or not it’s destroyed."
"And once we get hold of it, how do you destroy a Horcrux?" asked Ron.
"Well," said Hermione, "I’ve een researching that."
"How?" asked Harry. "I didn’t think there were any ooks on Horcruxes in the lirary?"
"There weren’t," said Hermione, who had turned pink. "Dumledore removed them all, ut he - he didn’t destroy them." Ron sat up straight, wide-eyed.
"How in the name of Merlin’s pants have you managed to get your hands on those Horcrux ooks?"
"It - it wasn’t stealing!" said Hermione, looking from Harry to Ron with a kind of desperation. "They were still lirary ooks, even if Dumledore had taken them off the shelves. Anyway, if he really didn’t want anyone to get at them, I’m sure he would have made it much harder to -"
"Get to the point!" said Ron.
"Well . . . it was easy," said Hermione in a small voice. "I just did a Summoning Charm. You know - Accio. And - they zoomed out of Dumledore’s study window right into the girls’ dormitory."
"But when did you do this?" Harry asked, regarding Hermione with a mixture of admiration and incredulity.
"Just after his - Dumledore’s - funeral," said Hermione in an even smaller voice. "Right after we agreed we’d leave school and go and look for the Horcruxes. When I went ack upstairs to get my things it - it just occurred to me that the more we knew aout them, the etter it would e . . . and I was alone in there . . . so I tried . . . and it worked. They flew straight in through the open window and I - I packed them."
She swallowed and then said imploringly, "I can’t elieve Dumledore would have een angry, it’s not as though we’re going to use the information to make a Horcrux, is it?"
"Can you hear us complaining?" said Ron. "Where are these ooks anyway?"
Hermione rummaged for a moment and then extracted from the pile a large volume, ound in faded lack leather. She looked a little nauseated and held it as gingerly as if it were something recently dead.
"This is the one that gives explicit instructions on how to make a Horcrux. Secrets of the Darkest Art - it’s a horrile ook, really awful, full of evil magic. I wonder when Dumledore removed it from the lirary. . . . if he didn’t do it until he was headmaster, I et Voldemort got all the instruction he needed from here."
"Why did he have to ask Slughorn how to make a Horcrux, then, if he’d already read that?" asked Ron.
"He only approached Slughorn to find out what would happen if you split your soul into seven," said Harry. "Dumledore was sure Riddle already knew how to make a Horcrux y the time he asked Slughorn aout them. I think you’re right, Hermione, that could easily have een where he got the information."
"And the more I’ve read aout them," said Hermione, "the more horrile they seem, and the less I can elieve that he actually made six. It warns in this ook how unstale you make the rest of your soul y ripping it, and that’s just y making one Horcrux!"
Harry rememered what Dumledore had said aout Voldemort moving eyond "usual evil."
"Isn’t there any way of putting yourself ack together?" Ron asked.
"Yes," said Hermione with a hollow smile, "ut it would e excruciatingly painful."
"Why? How do you do it?" asked Harry.
"Remorse," said Hermione. "You’ve got to really feel what you’ve done. There’s a footnote. Apparently the pain of it can destroy you. I can’t see Voldemort attempting it somehow, can you?"
"No," said Ron, efore Harry could answer. "So does it say how to destroy Horcruxes in that ook?"
"Yes," said Hermione, now turning the fragile pages as if examining rotting entrails, "ecause it warns Dark wizards how strong they have to make the enchantments on them. From all that I’ve read, what Harry did to Riddle’s diary was one of the few really foolproof ways of destroying a Horcrux."
"What, staing it with a asilisk fang?" asked Harry.
"Oh well, lucky we’ve got such a large supply of asilisk fangs, then," said Ron. "I was wondering what we were going to do with them."
"It doesn’t have to e a asilisk fang," said Hermione patiently. "It has to e something so destructive that the Horcrux can’t repair itself. Basilisk venom only has one antidote, and it’s incredily rare -"
"- phoenix tears," said Harry, nodding.
"Exactly," said Hermione. "Our prolem is that there are very few sustances as destructive as asilisk venom, and they’re all dangerous to carry around with you. That’s a prolem we’re going to have to solve, though, ecause ripping, smashing, or crushing a Horcrux won’t do the trick. You’ve got to put it eyond magical repair."
"But even if we wreck the thing it lives in," said Ron, "why can’t the it of soul in it just go and live in something else?"
"Because a Horcrux is the complete opposite of a human eing."
Seeing that Harry and Ron looked thoroughly confused, Hermione hurried on. "Look, if I picked up a sword right now, Ron, and ran you through with it, I wouldn’t damage your soul at all."
"Which would e a real comfort to me, I’m sure," said Ron. Harry laughed.
"It should e, actually! But my point is that whatever happens to your ody, your soul will survive, untouched," said Hermione. "But it’s the other way round with a
Horcrux. The fragment of soul inside it depends on its container, its enchanted ody, for survival. It can’t exist without it."
"That diary sort of died when I staed it," said Harry, rememering ink pouring like lood from the punctured pages, and the screams of the piece of Voldemort’s soul as it vanished.
"And once the diary was properly destroyed, the it of soul trapped in it could no longer exist. Ginny tried to get rid of the diary efore you did, flushing it away, ut oviously it came ack good as new."
"Hang on," said Ron, frowning. "The it of soul in that diary was possessing Ginny, wasn’t it? How does that work, then?"
"While the magical container is still intact, the it of soul inside it can flit in and out of someone if they get too close to the oject. I don’t mean holding it for too long, it’s nothing to do with touching it," she added efore Ron could speak. "I mean close emotionally. Ginny poured her heart out into that diary, she made herself incredily vulnerale. You’re in troule if you get too fond of or dependent on the Horcrux."
"I wonder how Dumledore destroyed the ring?" said Harry. "Why didn’t I ask him? I never really . . ."
His voice trailed away: He was thinking of all the things he should have asked Dumledore, and of how, since the headmaster had died, it seemed to Harry that he had wasted so many opportunities when Dumledore had een alive, to find out more . . . to find out everything. . . .
The silence was shattered as the edroom door flew open with a wall-shaking crash. Hermione shrieked and dropped Secrets of the Darkest Art; Crookshanks streaked under the ed, hissing indignantly; Ron jumped off the ed, skidded on a discarded Chocolate Frog wrapper, and smacked his head on the opposite wall; and Harry instinctively dived for his wand efore realizing that he was looking up at Mrs. Weasley, whose hair was disheveled and whose face was contorted with rage.
"I’m so sorry to reak up this cozy little gathering," she said, her voice tremling. "I’m sure you all need your rest . . . ut there are wedding presents stacked in my room that need sorting out and I was under the impression that you had agreed to help."
"Oh yes," said Hermione, looking terrified as she leapt to her feet, sending ooks flying in every direction. "we will . . . we’re sorry . . ."
With an anguished look at Harry and Ron, Hermione hurried out of the room after Mrs. Weasley.
"it’s like eing a house-elf," complained Ron in an undertone, still massaging his head as he and Harry followed. "Except without the jo satisfaction. The sooner this wedding’s over, the happier, I’ll e."
"Yeah," said Harry, "then we’ll have nothing to do except find Horcruxes. . . . It’ll e like a holiday, won’t it?"
Ron started to laugh, ut at the sight of the enormous pile of wedding presents waiting for them in Mrs. Weasley’s room, stopped quite aruptly.
The Delacours arrived the following morning at eleven o’ clock. Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny were feeling quite resentful toward Fleur’s family y this time; and it was with ill grace that Ron stumped ack upstairs to put on matching socks, and Harry attempted to flatten his hair. Once they had all een deemed smart enough, they trooped out into the sunny ackyard to await the visitors.
Harry had never seen the place looking so tidy. The rusty cauldrons and old Wellington oots that usually littered the steps y the ack door were gone, replaced y two new Fluttery ushes standing either side of the door in large pots; though there was no reeze, the leaves waved lazily, giving an attractive rippling effect. The chickens had een shut away, the yard had een swept, and the neary garden had een pruned, plucked, and generally spruced up, although Harry, who liked it in its overgrown state, thought that it looked rather forlorn without its usual contingent of capering gnomes.
He had lost track of how many security enchantments had een placed upon the Burrow y oth the Order and the Ministry; all he knew was that it was no longer possile for anyody to travel y magic directly into the place. Mr. Weasley had therefore gone to meet the Delacours on top of a neary hill, where they were to arrive y Portkey. The first sound of their approach was an unusually high-pitched laugh, which turned out to e coming from Mr. Weasley, who appeared at the gate moments later, laden with luggage and leading a eautiful londe woman in long, leaf green roes, who could e Fleur’s mother.
"Maman!" cried Fleur, rushing forward to emrace her. "Papa!"
Monsieur Delacour was nowhere near as attractive as his wife; he was a head shorter and extremely plum, with a little, pointed lack eard. However, he looked good-natured. Bouncing towards Mrs. Weasley on high-heeled oots, he kissed her twice on each cheek, leaving her flustered.
"You ‘ave een so much troule," he said in a deep voice. "Fleur tells us you ‘ave een working very ‘ard."
"Oh, it’s een nothing, nothing!" trilled Mrs. Weasley. "No troule at all!"
Ron relieved his feelings y aiming a kick at a gnome who was peering out from ehind one of the new Fluttery ushes.
"Dear lady!" said Monsieur Delacour, still holding Mrs. Weasley’s hand etween his own two plump ones and eaming. "We are most honored at the approaching union of our two families! Let me present my wife, Apolline."
Madame Delacour glided forward and stooped to kiss Mrs. Weasley too.
"Enchantée," she said. "Your ‘usand ‘as een telling us such amusing stories!"
Mr. Weasley gave a maniacal laugh; Mrs. Weasley threw him a look, upon which he ecame immediately silent and assumed an expression appropriate to the sicked of a close friend.
"And, of course, you ‘ave met my leetle daughter, Garielle!" said Monsieur Delacour. Garielle was Fleur in miniature; eleven years old, with waist-length hair of pure, silvery londe, she gave Mrs. Weasley a dazzling smile and hugged her, then threw Harry a glowing look, atting her eyelashes. Ginny cleared her throat loudly.
"Well, come in, do!" said Mrs. Weasley rightly, and she ushered the Delacours into the house, with many "No, please!"s and "After you!"s and "Not at all!"s.
The Delacours, it soon transpired, were helpful, pleasant guests. They were pleased with everything and keen to assist with the preparations for the wedding. Monsieur Delacour pronounced everything from the seating plan to the ridesmaids’ shoes "Charmant!" Madame Delacour was most accomplished at household spells and had the oven properly cleaned in a trice; Garielle followed her elder sister around, trying to assist in any way she could and jaering away in rapid French.
On the downside, the Burrow was not uilt to accommodate so many people. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were now sleeping in the sitting room, having shouted down Monsieur and Madame Delacour’s protests and insisted they take their edroom. Garielle was sleeping with Fleur in Percy’s old room, and Bill would e sharing with Charlie, his est man, once Charlie arrived from Romania. Opportunities to make plans together ecame virtually nonexistent, and it was in desperation that Harry, Ron and Hermione took to volunteering to feed the chickens just to escape the overcrowded house.
"But she still won’t leave us alone!" snarled Ron, and their second attempt at a meeting in the yard was foiled y the appearance of Mrs. Weasley carrying a large asket of laundry in her arms.
"Oh, good, you’ve fed the chickens," she called as she approached them. "We’d etter shut them away again efore the men arrive tomorrow . . . to put up the tent for the wedding," she explained, pausing to lean against the henhouse. She looked exhausted. "Millamant’s Magic Marquees . . . they’re very good. Bill’s escorting them. . . . You’d etter stay inside while they’re here, Harry. I must say it does complicate organizing a wedding, having all these security spells around the place."
"I’m sorry," said Harry humly.
"Oh, don’t e silly, dear!" said Mrs. Weasley at once. "I didn’t mean - well, your safety’s much more important! Actually, I’ve een wanting to ask you how you want to celerate your irthday, Harry. Seventeen, after all, it’s an important day. . . ."
"I don’t want a fuss," said Harry quickly, envisaging the additional strain this would put on them all. "Really, Mrs. Weasley, just a normal dinner would e fine. . . . It’s the day efore the wedding. . . ."
"Oh, well, if you’re sure, dear. I’ll invite Remus and Tonks, shall I? And how aout Hagrid?"
"That’d e great," said Harry. "But please, don’t go to loads of troule."
"Not at all, not at all . . . It’s no troule. . . ."
She looked at him, a long, searching look, then smiled a little sadly, straightened up, and walked away. Harry watched as she waved her wand near the washing line, and the damp clothes rose into the air to hang themselves up, and suddenly he felt a great wave of remorse for the inconvenience and the pain he was giving her.
Chapter Seven
The Will of Alus Dumledore
He was walking along a mountain road in the cool lue light of dawn. Far elow, swathed in mist, was the shadow of a small town. Was the man he sought down there, the man he needed so adly he could think of little else, the man who held the answer, the answer to his prolem...?
"Oi, wake up."
Harry opened his eyes. He was lying again on the camp ed in Rons dingy attic room. The sun had not yet risen and the room was still shadowy. Pigwidgeon was asleep with his head under his tiny wing. The scar on Harrys forehead was prickling.
"You were muttering in your sleep."
"Was I?"
"Yeah. Gregorovitch. You kept saying Gregorovitch."
Harry was not wearing his glasses; Rons face appeared slightly lurred.
"Whos Gregorovitch?"
"I dunno, do I?" You were the one saying it."
Harry rued his forehead, thinking. He had a vague idea he had heard the name efore, ut he could not think where.
"I think Voldemorts looking for him."
"Poor loke," said Ron fervently.
Harry sat up, still ruing his scar, now wide awake. He tried to rememer exactly what he had seen in the dream, ut all that came ack was a mountainous horizon and the outline of the little village cradled in a deep valley.
"I think hes aroad."
"Who, Gregorovitch?"
"Voldemort. I think hes somewhere aroad, looking for Gregorovitch. It didnt look like anywhere in Britain."
"You reckon you were seeing into his mind again?"
Ron sounded worried.
"Do me a favor and dont tell Hermione," said Harry. "Although how she expects me to stop seeing stuff in my sleep..."
He gazed up at little Pigwidgeons cage, thinking...Why was the name "Gregorovitch" familiar?
"I think," he said slowly, "hes got something to do with Quidditch. Theres some connection, ut I cant--I cant think what it is."
"Quidditch?" said Ron. "Sure youre not thinking of Gorgovitch?"
"Who?"
"Dragomir Gorgovitch, Chaser, transferred to the Chudley Cannons for a record fee two years ago. Record holder for most Quaffle drops in a season."
"No," said Harry. "Im definitely not thinking of Gorgovitch."
"I try not to either," said Ron. "Well, happy irthday anyway."
"Wow -- thats right, I forgot! Im seventeen!"
Harry seized the wand lying eside his camp ed, pointed it at the cluttered desk where he had left his glasses, and said, "Accio Glasses!" Although they were only around a foot away, there was something immensely satisfying aout seeing them zoom toward him, at least until they poked him in the eye.
"Slick," snorted Ron.
Reveling in the removal of his Trace, Harry sent Rons possessions flying around the room, causing Pigwidgeon to wake up and flutter excitedly around his cage. Harry also tried tying the laces of his trainers y magic (the resultant knot took several minutes to untie y hand) and, purely for the pleasure of it, turned the orange roes on Rons Chudley Cannons posters right lue.
"Id do your fly y hand, though," Ron advised Harry, sniggering when Harry immediately checked it. "Heres your present. Unwrap it up here, its not for my mothers eyes."
"A ook?" said Harry as he took the rectangular parcel. "Bit of a departure from tradition, isnt it?"
"This isnt your average ook," said Ron. "Itd pure gold: Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches. Explains everything you need to know aout girls. If only Id had this last year Id have known exactly how to get rid of Lavender and I wouldve known how to get going with... Well, Fred and George gave me a copy, and Ive learned a lot. Youd e surprised, its not all aout wandwork, either."
When they arrived in the kitchen they found a pile of presents waiting on the tale. Bill and Monsieur Delacour were finishing their reakfasts, while Mrs. Weasley stood chatting to them over the frying pan.
"Arthur told me to wish you a happy seventeenth, Harry," said Mrs. Weasley, eaming at him. "He had to leave early for work, ut hell e ack for dinner. Thats our present on top."
Harry sat down, took the square parcel she had indicated, and unwrapped it. Inside was a watch very like the one Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had given Ron for his seventeenth; it was gold, with stars circling around the race instead of hands.
"Its traditional to give a wizard a watch when he comes of age," said Mrs. Weasley, watching him anxiously from eside the cooker. "Im afraid that one isnt new like Rons, it was actually my rother Faians and he wasnt terrily careful with his possessions, its a it dented on the ack, ut--"
The rest of her speech was lost; Harry had got up and hugged her. He tried to put a lot of unsaid things into the hug and perhaps she understood them, ecause she patted his cheek clumsily when he released her, then waved her wand in a slightly random way, causing half a pack of acon to flop out of the frying pan onto the floor.
"Happy irthday, Harry!" said Hermione, hurrying into the kitchen and adding her own present to the top of the pile. "Its not much, ut I hope you like it. What did you get him?" she added to Ron, who seemed not to hear her.
"Come on, then, open Hermiones!" said Ron.
She had ought him a new Sneakoscope. The other packages contained an enchanted razor from Bill and Fleur ("Ah yes, zis will give you ze smoothest shave you will ever ave," Monsieur Delacour assured him, "ut you must tell it clearly what you want...ozzerwise you might find you ave a leetle less hair zan you would like..."), chocolates from the Delacours, and an enormous ox of the latest Weasleys Wizard Wheezes merchandise from Fred and George.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione did not linger at the tale, as the arrival of Madame Delacour, Fleur, and Garielle made the kitchen uncomfortaly crowded.
"Ill pack these for you," Hermione said rightly, taking Harrys presents out of his arms as the three of them headed ack upstairs. "Im nearly done, Im just waiting for the rest of your underpants to come out of the wash, Ron--"
Rons splutter was interrupted y the opening of a door on the first-floor landing.
"Harry, will you come in here a moment?"
It was Ginny. Ron came to an arupt halt, ut Hermione took him y the elow and tugged him on up the stairs. Feeling nervous, Harry followed Ginny into her room.
He had never een inside it efore. It was small, ut right. There was a large poster of the Wizarding and the Weird Sisters on one wall, and a picture of Gwenog Jones, Captain of the all-witch Quidditch team the Holyhead Harpies, on the other. A desk stood facing the open window, which looked out over the orchard where he and Ginny had once played a two-a-side Quidditch with Ron and Hermione, and which now housed a large, pearly white marquee. The golden flag on top was level with Ginnys window.
Ginny looked up into Harrys face, took a deep reath, and said, "Happy seventeenth."
"Yeah...thanks."
She was looking at him steadily; he however, found it difficult to look ack at her; it was like gazing into a rilliant light.
"Nice view," he said feely, pointing toward with window.
She ignored this. He could not lame her.
"I couldnt think what to get you," she said.
"You didnt have to get me anything."
She disregarded this too.
"I didnt know what would e useful. Nothing too ig, ecause you wouldnt e ale to take it with you."
He chanced a glance at her. She was not tearful; that was one of the many wonderful things aout Ginny, she was rarely weepy. He had sometimes thought that having six rothers must have toughened her up.
She took a step closer to him.
"So then I thought, Id like you to have something to rememer me y, you know, if you meet some veela when youre off doing whatever youre doing."
"I think dating opportunities are going to e pretty thin on the ground, to e honest."
"Theres the silver lining Ive een looking for," she whispered, and then she was kissing him as she had never kissed him efore, and Harry was kissing her ack, and it was lissful olivion etter than firewhisky; she was the only real thing in the world, Ginny, the feel of her, one hand at her ack and one in her long, sweet-smelling hair--
The door anged open ehind them and they jumped apart.
"Oh," said Ron pointedly. "Sorry."
"Ron!" Hermione was just ehind him, slight out of reath. There was a strained silence, then Ginny had said in a flat little voice,
"Well, happy irthday anyway, Harry."
Rons ears were scarlet; Hermione looked nervous. Harry wanted to slam the door in their faces, ut it felt as though a cold draft had entered the room when the door opened, and his shining moment had popped like a soap ule. All the reasons for ending his relationship with Ginny, for staying well away from her, seemed to have slunk inside the room with Ron, and all happy forgetfulness was gone.
He looked at Ginny, wanting to say something, though he hardly knew what, ut she had turned her ack on him. He thought that she might have succumed, for once, to tears. He could not do anything to comfort her in front of Ron.
"Ill see you later," he said, and followed the other two out of the edroom.
Ron marched downstairs, though the still-crowded kitchen and into the yard, and Harry kept pace with him all the way, Hermione trotting along ehind them looking scared.
Once he reached the seclusion of the freshly mown lawn, Ron rounded on Harry.
"You ditched her. What are you doing now, messing her around?"
"Im not messing her around," said Harry, as Hermione caught up with them.
"Ron--"
But Ron held up a hand to silence her.
"She was really cut up when you ended it--"
"So was I. You know why I stopped it, and it wasnt ecause I wanted to."
"Yeah, ut you go snogging her now and shes just going to get her hopes up again--"
"Shes not an idiot, she knows it cant happen, shes not expecting us to--to end up married, or--"
As he said it, a vivid picture formed in Harrys mind of Ginny in a white dress, marrying a tall, faceless, and unpleasant stranger.
In one spiraling moment it seemed to hit him: Her future was free and unencumered, whereas his...he could see nothing ut Voldemort ahead.
"If you keep groping her every chance you get--"
"It wont happen again," said Harry harshly. The day was cloudless, ut he felt as though the sun had gone in. "Okay?"
Ron looked half resentful, half sheepish; he rocked ackward and forward on his feet for a moment, then said, "Right then, well, thats...yeah."
Ginny did not seek another one-to-one meeting with Harry for the rest of the day, nor y any look or gesture did she show that they had shared more than polite conversation in her room. Nevertheless, Charlies arrival came as a relief to Harry. It provided a distraction, watching Mrs. Weasley force Charlie into a chair, raise her wand threateningly, and announce that he was aout to get a proper haircut.
As Harrys irthday dinner would have stretched the Burrows kitchen to reaking point even efore the arrival of Charlie, Lupin, Tonks, and Hagrid, several tales were placed end to end in the garden. Fred and George ewitched a numer of purple lanterns all emlazoned with a large numer 17, to hang in midair over the guests. Thanks to Mrs. Weasleys ministrations, Georges wound was neat and clean, ut Harry was not yet used to the dark hole in the side of his head, despite the twins many jokes aout it.
Hermione made purple and gold streamers erupt from the end of her wand and drape themselves artistically over the trees and ushes.
"Nice," said Ron, as with one final flourish of her wand, Hermione
turned the leaves on the craapple tree to gold. "Youve really got an eye for that sort of thing."
"Thank you, Ron!" said Hermione, looking oth pleased and a little confused. Harry turned away, smiling to himself. He had a funny notion that he would find a chapter on compliments when he found time to peruse his copy of Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches; he caught Ginnys eye and grinned at her efore rememering his promise to Ron and hurriedly striking up a conversation with Monsieur Delacour.
"Out of the way, out of the way!" sang Mrs. Weasley, coming through the gate with what appeared to e a giant, each-all-sized Snitch floating in front of her. Seconds later Harry realized that it was his irthday cake, which Mrs. Weasley was suspending with her wand, rather than risk carrying it over the uneven ground. When the cake had finally landed in the middle of the tale, Harry said,
"That looks amazing, Mrs. Weasley."
"Oh, its nothing, dear," she said fondly. Over her shoulder, Ron gave Harry the thums-up and mouthed, Good one.
By seven oclock all the guests had arrived, led into the house y Fred and George, who had waited for them at the end of the lane. Hagrid had honored the occasion y wearing his est, and horrile, hairy rown suit. Although Lupin smiled as he shook Harrys hand, Harry thought he looked rather unhappy. It was all very odd; Tonks, eside him, looked simply radiant.
"Happy irthday, Harry," she said, hugging him tightly.
"Seventeen, eh!" said Hagrid as he accepted a ucket-sized glass of wine from Fred. "Six years ter the day since we met, Harry, dyeh rememer it?"
"Vaguely," said Harry, grinning up at him. "Didnt you smash down the front door, give Dudley a pigs tail, and tell me I was a wizard?"
"I forge the details," Hagrid chortled. "All righ, Ron, Hermione?"
"Were fine," said Hermione. "How are you?"
"Ar, not ad. Bin usy, we got some neworn unicorns. Ill show yeh when yeh get ack--" Harry avoided Rons and Hermiones gazes as Hagrid rummaged in his pocket. "Here. Harry -- couldnt think what ter get teh, ut then I rememered this." He pulled out a small, slightly furry drawstring pouch with a long string, evidently intended to e worn around the neck. "Mokeskin. Hide anythin in there an no one ut the owner can get it out. Theyre rare, them."
"Hagrid, thanks!"
"Snothin," said Hagrid with a wave of a dustin-lid-sized hand. "An theres Charlie! Always liked him -- hey! Charlie!"
Charlie approached, running his hand slightly ruefully over his new, rutally short haircut. He was shorter than Ron, thickset, with a numer of urns and scratches up his muscley arms.
"Hi, Hagrid, hows it going?"
"Bin meanin ter write fer ages. Hows Norert doin?"
"Norert?" Charlie laughed. "The Norwegian Ridgeack? We call her Norerta now."
"Wha -- Norerts a girl?"
"Oh yeah," said Charlie.
"How can you tell?" asked Hermione.
"Theyre a lot more vicious," said Charlie. He looked over his shoulder and dropped his voice. "Wish Dad would hurry up and get here. Mums getting edgy."
They all looked over at Mrs. Weasley. She was trying to talk to Madame Delacour while glancing repeatedly at the gate.
"I think wed etter start without Arthur," she called to the garden at large after a moment or two. "He must have een held up at -- oh!"
They all saw it at the same time: a streak of light that came flying across the yard and onto the tale, where it resolved itself into a right silver weasel, which stood on its hind legs and spoke with Mr. Weasleys voice.
"Minister of Magic coming with me."
The Patronus dissolved into thin air, leaving Fleurs family peering in astonishment at the place where it had vanished.
"We shouldnt e here," said Lupin at once. "Harry -- Im sorry -- Ill explain some other time--"
He seized Tonks’s wrist and pulled her away; they reached the fence, climed over it, and vanished from sight. Mrs. Weasley looked ewildered.
"The Minister -- ut why--? I dont understand--"
But there was no time to discuss the matter; a second later, Mr. Weasley had appeared out of thin air at the gate, accompanied y Rufus Scrimgeour, instantly recognizale y his mane of grizzled hair.
The two newcomers marched across the yard toward the garden and the lantern-lit tale, where everyody sat in silence, watching them draw closer. As Scrimgeour came within range of the lantern light. Harry saw that he looked much older than the last time that had met, scraggy and grim.
"Sorry to intrude," said Scrimgeour, as he limped to a halt efore the tale. "Especially as I can see that I am gate-crashing a party."
His eyes lingered for a moment on the giant Snitch cake.
"Many happy returns."
"Thanks," said Harry.
"I require a private word with you," Scrimgeour went on. "Also with Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger."
"Us?" said Ron, sounding surprised. "Why us?"
"I shall tell you that when we are somewhere more private," said Scrimgeour. "Is there such a place? he demanded of Mr. Weasley.
"Yes, of course," said Mr. Weasley, who looked nervous. "The, er, sitting room, why dont you use that?"
"You can lead the way," Scrimgeour said to Ron. "There will e no need for you to accompany us, Arthur."
Harry saw Mr. Weasley exchange a worried look with Mrs. Weasley as he, Ron, and Hermione stood up. As they led the way ack to the house in silence, Harry knew that the other two were thinking the same as he was; Scrimgeour must, somehow, had learned that the three of them were planning to drop out of Hogwarts.
Scrimgeour did not speak as they all passed through the messed kitchen and into the Burrows sitting room. Although the garden had een full of soft golden evening light,
it was already dark in here; Harry flicked his wand at the oil lamps as he entered and they illuminated the shay ut cozy room. Scrimgeour sat himself in the sagging armchair that Mr. Weasley normally occupied, leaving Harry, Ron, and Hermione to squeeze side y side onto the sofa. Once they had done so, Scrimgeour spoke.
"I have some questions for the three of you, and I think it will e est if we do it individually. If you two" -- he pointed at Harry and Hermione -- "can wait upstairs, I will start with Ronald."
"Were not going anywhere," said Harry, while Hermione nodded vigorously. "You can speak to us together, or not at all."
Scrimgeour gave Harry a cold, appraising look. Harry had the impression that the Minister was wondering whether it was worthwhile opening hostilities this early.
"Very well then, together," he said, shrugging. He cleared his throat. "I am here, as Im sure you know, ecause of Alus Dumledores will."
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another.
"A surprise, apparently! You were not aware then that Dumledore had left you anything?"
"A-all of us?" said Ron, "Me and Hermione too?"
"Yes, all of --"
But Harry interrupted.
"Dumledore died over a month ago. Why has it taken this long to give us what he left us?"
"Isnt it ovious?" said Hermione, efore Scrimgeour could answer. "They wanted to examine whatever hes left us. You had no right to do that!" she said, and her voice tremled slightly.
"I had every right," said Scrimgeour dismissively. "The Decree for Justifiale Confiscation gives the Ministry the power the confiscate the contents of a will--"
"That law was created to stop wizards passing on Dark artifacts," said Hermione, "and the Ministry is supposed to have powerful evidence that the deceaseds possessions are illegal efore seizing them! Are you telling me that you thought Dumledore was trying to pass us something cursed?"
"Are you planning to follow a career in Magical Law, Miss Granger?" asked Scrimgeour.
"No, Im not," retorted Hermione. "Im hoping to do some good in the world!"
Ron laughed. Scrimgeours eyes flickered toward him and away again as Harry spoke.
"So why have you decided to let us have our things now? Cant think of a pretext to keep them?"
"No, itll e ecause thirty-one days are up," said Hermione at once. "They cant keep the ojects longer than that unless they can prove theyre dangerous. Right?"
"Would you say you were close to Dumledore, Ronald?" asked Scrimgeour, ignoring Hermione. Ron looked startled.
"Me? Not -- not really... It was always Harry who..."
Ron looked around at Harry and Hermione, to see Hermione giving him a stop-talking-now! sort of look, ut the damage was done; Scrimgeour looked as though he had
heard exactly what he had expected, and wanted, to hear. He swooped like a ird of prey upon Rons answer.
"If you were not very close to Dumledore, how do you account for the fact that he rememered you in his will? He made exceptionally few personal equests. The vast majority of his possessions -- his private lirary, his magical instruments, and other personal effects -- were left to Hogwarts. Why do you think you were singled out?"
"I...dunno," said Ron. "I...when I say we werent close...I mean, I think he liked me..."
"Youre eing modest, Ron," said Hermione. "Dumledore was very fond of you."
This was stretching the truth to reaking point; as far as Harry knew, Ron and Dumledore had never een alone together, and direct contact etween them had een negligile. However, Scrimgeour did not seem to e listening. He put his hand inside his cloak and drew out a drawstring pouch much larger than the one Hagrid had given Harry. From it, he removed a scroll of parchment which he unrolled and read aloud.
"The Last Will and Testament of Alus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumledore... Yes, here we are... To Ronald Bilius Weasley, I leave my Deluminator, in the hope that he will rememer me when he uses it."
Scrimgeour took from the ag an oject that Harry had seen efore: It looked something like a silver cigarette lighter, ut it had, he knew, the power to suck all light from a place, and restore it, with a simple click. Scrimgeour leaned forward and passed the Deluminator to Ron, who took it and turned it over in the fingers looking stunned.
"That is a valuale oject," said Scrimgeour, watching Ron. "It may even e unique. Certainly it is of Dumledores own design. Why would he have left you and item so rare?"
Ron shook his head, looking ewildered.
"Dumledore must have taught thousands of students," Scrimgeour persevered. "Yet the only ones he rememered in his will are you three. Why is that? To what use did he think you would put to the Deluminator, Mr. Weasley?"
"Put out lights, I spose," mumled Ron. "What else could I do with it?"
Evidently Scrimgeour had no suggestions. After squinting at Ron for a moment or tow, he turned ack to Dumledores will.
"To Miss Hermione Jean Granger, I leave my copy of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, in the hope that she will find it entertaining and instructive."
Scrimgeour now pulled out of the ag a small ook that looked as ancient as the copy of Secrets of the Darkest Art upstairs. Its inding was stained and peeling in places. Hermione took it from Scrimgeour without a word. She held the ook in her lap and gazed at it. Harry saw that the title was in runes; he had never learned to read them. As he looked, a tear splashed onto the emossed symols.
"Why do you think Dumledore left you that ook, Miss Granger?" asked Scrimgeour.
"He... he knew I liked ooks," said Hermione in a thick voice, mopping her eyes with her sleeve.
"But why that particular ook?"
"I dont know. He must have thought Id enjoy it."
"Did you ever discuss codes, or any means of passing secret messages, with Dumledore?"
"No, I didnt," said Hermione, still wiping her eyes on her sleeve. "And if the Ministry hasnt found any hidden codes in this ook in thirty-one days, I dout that I will."
She suppressed a so. They were wedged together so tightly that Ron had difficulty extracting his arm to put it around Hermiones shoulders. Scrimgeour turned ack to the will.
"To Harry James Potter," he read, and Harrys insides contracted with a sudden excitement, "I leave the Snitch he caught in his first Quidditch match at Hogwarts, as a reminder of the rewards of perseverance and skill."
As Scrimgeour pulled out the tiny, walnut-sized golden all, its silver wings fluttered rather feely, and Harry could not help feeling a definite sense of anticlimax.
"Why did Dumledore leave you this Snitch?" asked Scrimgeour.
"No idea," said Harry. "For the reasons you just read out, I suppose... to remind me what you can get if you... persevere and whatever it was."
"You think this a mere symolic keepsake, then?"
"I suppose so," said Harry. "What else could it e?"
"Im asking the questions," said Scrimgeour, shifting his chair a little closer to the sofa. Dusk was really falling outside now; the marquee eyond the windows towered ghostly white over the hedge.
"I notice that your irthday cake is in the shape of a Snitch," Scrimgeour said to Harry. "Why is that?"
Hermione laughed derisively.
"Oh, it cant e a reference to the fact Harrys a great Seeker, thats way too ovious," she said. "There must e a secret message from Dumledore hidden in the icing!"
"I dont think theres anything hidden in the icing," said Scrimgeour, "ut a Snitch would e a very good hiding place for a small oject. You know why, Im sure?"
Harry shrugged, Hermione, however, answered: Harry thought that answering questions correctly was such a deeply ingrained hait she could not suppress the urge.
"Because Snitches have flesh memories," she said.
"What?" said Harry and Ron together; oth considered Hermiones Quidditch knowledge negligile.
"Correct," said Scrimgeour. "A Snitch is not touched y are skin efore it is released, not even y the maker, who wears gloves. It carries an enchantment y which it can identify the first human to lay hands upon it, in case of a disputed capture. This Snitch" -- he held up the tiny golden all -- "will rememer your touch, Potter.
It occurs to me that Dumledore, who had prodigious magical skill, whatever his other faults, might have enchanted this Snitch so that it will open only for you."
Harrys heart was eating rather fast. He was sure that Scrimgeour was right. How could he avoid taking the Snitch with his are hand in front of the Minister?
"You dont say anything," said Scrimgeour. "Perhaps you already know what the Snitch contains?"
"No," said Harry, still wondering how he could appear to touch the Snitch without really doing so. If only he knew Legilimency, really knew it, and could read Hermiones mind; he could practically hear her rain whizzing eside him.
"Take it," said Scrimgeour quietly.
Harry met the Ministers yellow eyes and knew he had no option ut to oey. He held out his hand, and Scrimgeour leaned forward again and place the Snitch, slowly and delierately, into Harrys palm.
Nothing happened. As Harrys fingers closed around the Snitch, its tired wings fluttered and were still. Scrimgeour, Ron, and Hermione continued to gaze avidly at the now partially concealed all, as if still hoping it might transform in some way.
"That was dramatic," said Harry coolly. Both Ron and Hermione laughed.
"Thats all, then, is it?" asked Hermione, making to raise herself off the sofa.
"Not quite," said Scrimgeour, who looked ad tempered now. "Dumledore left you a second equest, Potter."
"What is it?" asked Harry, excitement rekindling.
Scrimgeour did not other to read from the will this time.
"The sword of Godric Gryffindor," he said. Hermione and Ron oth stiffened. Harry looked around for a sign of the ruy-encrusted hilt, ut Scrimgeour did not pull the sword from the leather pouch, which in any case looked much too small to contain it.
"So where is it?" Harry asked suspiciously.
"Unfortunately," said Scrimgeour, "that sword was not Dumledores to give away. The sword of Godric Gryffindor is an important historical artifact, and as such, elongs--"
"It elongs to Harry!" said Hermione hotly. "It chose him, he was the one who found it, it came to him out of the Sorting Hat--"
"According to reliale historical sources, the sword may present itself to any worthy Gryffindor," said Scrimgeour. "That does not make it the exclusive property of Mr. Potter, whatever Dumledore may have decided." Scrimgeour scratched his adly shaven cheek, scrutinizing Harry. "Why do you think--?"
"--Dumledore wanted to give me the sword?" said Harry, struggling to keep his temper. "Maye he thought it would look nice on my wall."
"This is not a joke, Potter!" growled Scrimgeour. "Was it ecause Dumledore elieved that only the sword of Godric Gryffindor could defeat the Heir of Slytherin? Did he wish to give you that sword, Potter, ecause he elieved, as do many, that you are the one destined to destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?"
"Interesting theory," said Harry. "Has anyone ever tried sticking a sword in Voldemort? Maye the Ministry should put some people onto that, instead of wasting their time stripping down Deluminators or covering up reakouts from Azkaan. So this is what youve een doing, Minister, shut up in your office, trying to reak open a Snitch? People are dying - I was nearly one of them - Voldemort chased me across three countries, he killed Mad-Eye Moody, ut theres no word aout any of that from the Ministry, has there? And you still expect us to cooperate with you!"
"You go too far!" shouted Scrimgeour, standing up: Harry jumped to his feet too. Scrimgeour limped toward Harry and jaed him hard in the chest with the point of his wand; It singed a hole in Harrys T-shirt like a lit cigarette.
"Oi!" said Ron, jumping up and raising his own wand, ut Harry said,
"No! Dyou want to give him an excuse to arrest us?"
"Rememered youre not at school, have you?" said Scrimgeour reathing hard into Harrys face. "Rememered that I am not Dumledore, who forgave your insolence
and insuordination? You may wear that scar like a crown, Potter, ut it is not up to a seventeen-year-old oy to tell me how to do my jo! Its time you learned some respect!"
"Its time you earned it." said Harry.
The floor tremled; there was a sound of running footsteps, then the door to the sitting room urst open and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley ran in.
"We --- we thought we heard --" egan Mr. Weasley, looking thoroughly alarmed at the sight of Harry and the Minister virtually nose to nose.
"-raised voices," panted Mrs. Weasley.
Scrimgeour took a couple of steps ack from Harry, glancing at the hole he had made in Harrys T-shirt. He seemed to regret his loss of temper.
"It - it was nothing," he growled. "I ... regret your attitude," he said, looking Harry full in the face once more. "You seem to think that the Ministry does not desire what you - what Dumledore - desired. We ought to work together."
"I dont like your methods, Minister," said Harry. "Rememer?"
For the second time, he raised his right fist and displayed to Scrimgeour the scar that still showed white on the ack of it, spelling I must not tell lies . Scrimgeours expression hardened. He turned away without another word and limped from the room. Mrs. Weasley hurried after him; Harry heard her stop at the ack door. After a minute or so she called, "Hes gone!"
What did he want?" Mr. Weasley asked, looking around at Harry, Ron, and Hermione as Mrs. Weasley came hurrying ack to them.
"To give us what Dumledore left us," said Harry. "Theyve only just released the content of his will."
Outside in the garden, over the dinner tales, the three ojects Scrimgeour had given them were passed from hand to hand. Everyone exclaimed over the Deluminator and The Tales of Beedle the Bard and lamented the fact that Scrimgeour had refused to pass on the sword, ut none of them could offer any suggestion as to why Dumledore would have left Harry an old Snitch. As Mr. Weasley examined the Deluminator for the third of fourth time, Mrs. Weasley said tentatively, "Harry, dear, everyones awfully hungry we didnt like to start without you... Shall I serve dinner now?"
They all ate rather hurriedly and then after a hasty chorus of "Happy Birthday" and much gulping of cake, the party roke up. Hagrid, who was invited to the wedding the following day, ut was far too ulky to sleep in the overstretched Burrow, left to set up a tent for himself in a neighoring field.
"Meet us upstairs," Harry whispered to Hermione, while they helped Mrs. Weasley restore the garden to its normal state. "After everyones gone to ed."
Up in the attic room, Ron examined his Deluminator, and Harry filled Hagrids mokeskin purse, not with gold, ut with those items he most prized, apparently worthless though some of them were the Marauders Map, the shard of Siriuss enchanted mirror, and R.A.B.s locket. He pulled the string tight and slipped the purse around his neck, then sat holding the old Snitch and watching its wings flutter feely. At last, Hermione tapped on the door and tiptoed inside.
"Muffiato," she whispered, waving her wand in the direction of the stairs.
"Thought you didnt approve of that spell?" said Ron.
"Times change," said Hermione. "Now, show us that Deluminator."
Ron oliged at once. Holding I up in front of him, he clicked it. The solitary lamp they had lit went out at once.
"The thing is," whispered Hermione through the dark, "we could have achieved that with Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder."
There was a small click, and the all of light from the lamp flew ack to the ceiling and illuminated them all once more.
"Still, its cool," said Ron, a little defensively. "And from what they said, Dumledore invented it himself!"
"I know ut, surely he wouldnt have singled you out in his will just to help us turn out the lights!"
"Dyou think he knew the Ministry would confiscate his will and examine everything hed left us?" asked Harry.
"Definitely," said Hermione. "He couldnt tell us in the will why he was leaving us these things, ut that will doesnt explain..."
"... why he couldnt have given us a hint when he was alive?" asked Ron.
"Well, exactly," said Hermione, now flicking through The Tales of Beedle the Bard. "If these things are important enough to pass on right under the nose of the Ministry, youd think hed have left us know why... unless he thought it was ovious?"
"Thought wrong, then, didnt he?" said Ron. "I always said he was mental. Brilliant and everything, ut cracked. Leaving Harry an old Snitch - what the hell was that aout?"
"Ive no idea," said Hermione. "When Scrimgeour made you take it, Harry, I was so sure that something was going to happen!"
"Yeah, well," said Harry, his pulse quickened as he raised the Snitch in his fingers. "I wasnt going to try too hard in front of Scrimgeour was I?"
"What do you mean?" asked Hermione.
"The Snitch I caught in my first ever Quidditch match?" said Harry. "Dont you rememer?"
Hermione looked simply emused. Ron, however, gasped, pointing frantically from Harry to the Snitch and ack again until he found his voice.
"That was the one you nearly swallowed!"
"Exactly," said Harry, and with his heart eating fast, he pressed his mouth to the Snitch.
It did not open. Frustration and itter disappointment welled up inside him: He lowered the golden sphere, ut then Hermione cried out.
"Writing! Theres writing on it, quick, look!" He nearly dropped the Snitch in surprise and excitement. Hermione was quite right. Engraved upon the smooth golden surface, where seconds efore there had een nothing, were five words written in the thin, slanted handwriting that Harry recognized as Dumledores
I open at the close.
He had arely read them when the words vanished again.
"I open at the close...." Whats that supposed to mean?"
Hermione and Ron shook their heads, looking lank.
"I open at the close... at the close... I open at the close..."
But no matter how often they repeated the words, with many different inflections, they were unale to wring any more meaning from them.
"And the sword," said Ron finally, when they had at last aandoned their attempts to divine meaning in the Snitchs inscription.
"Why did he want Harry to have the sword?"
"And why couldnt he just have told me?" Harry said quietly. "I was there, it was right there on the wall of his office during all our talks last year! If he wanted me to have it, why didnt he just give it to me then?"
He felt as thought he were sitting in an examination with a question he ought to have een ale to answer in front of him, his rain slow and unresponsive. Was there something he had missed in the long talks with Dumledore last year? Ought he to know what it all meant? Had Dumledore expected him to understand?
"And as for this ook." Said Hermione, "The Tales of Beedle the Bard ... Ive never even heard of them!"
"Youve never heard of The Tales of Beedle the Bard?" said Ron incredulously. "Youre kidding, right?"
"No, Im not," said Hermione in surprise. "Do you know them then?"
"Well, of course I do!"
Harry looked up, diverted. The circumstance of Ron having read a ook that Hermione had not was unprecedented. Ron, however, looked emused y their surprise.
"Oh come on! All the old kids stories are supposed to e Beedles arent they? The Fountain of Fair Fortune ... The Wizard and the Hopping Pot... Baitty Raitty and her Cackling Stump..."
"Excuse me?" said Hermione giggling. "What was the last one?"
"Come off it!" said Ron, looking in diselief from Harry to Hermione. "You mustve heard of Baitty Raitty -"
"Ron, you know full well Harry and I were rought up y Muggles!" said Hermione. "We didnt hear stories like that when we were little, we heard Snow White and the Seven Dwarves and Cinderella -"
"Whats that, an illness?" asked Ron.
"So these are childrens stories?" asked Hermione, ending against over the runes.
"Yeah." Said Ron uncertainly. "I mean, just what you hear, you know, that all these old stories came from Beedle. I dunno what theyre like in the original versions."
"But I wonder why Dumledore thought I should read them?"
Something cracked downstairs.
"Proaly just Charlie, now Mums asleep, sneaking off to regrow his hair," said Ron nervously.
"All the same, we should get to ed," whispered Hermione. "It wouldnt do to oversleep tomorrow."
"No," agreed Ron. "A rutal triple murder y the ridegrooms mother might put a it of damper on the wedding. Ill get the light."
And he clicked the Deluminator once more as Hermione left the room.
Chapter Eight
The Wedding
Three o’clock on the following afternoon found Harry, Ron, Fred and George standing outside the great white marquee in the orchard, awaiting the arrival of the wedding guests. Harry had taken a large dose of Polyjuice Potion and was now the doule of a redheaded Muggle oy from the local village, Ottery St. Catchpole, from whom Fred had stolen hairs using a Summoning Charm. The plan was to introduce Harry as "Cousin Barny" and trust to the great numer of Weasley relatives to camouflage him.
All four of them were clutching seating plans, so that they could help show people to the right seats. A host of white-roed waiters had arrived an hour earlier, along with a golden jacketed and, and all of these wizards were currently sitting a short distance away under a tree. Harry could see a lue haze of pipe smoke issuing from the spot. Behind Harry, the entrance to the marquee revealed rows and rows of fragile golden chairs set on either side of a long purple carpet. The supporting poles were entwined with white and gold flowers. Fred and George had fastened an enormous unch of golden alloons over the exact point where Bill and Fleur would shortly ecome husand and wife. Outside, utterflies and ees were hovering lazily over the grass and hedgerow. Harry was rather uncomfortale. The Muggle oy whose appearance he was affecting was slightly fatter than him and his dress roes felt hot and tight in the full glare of a summer’s day.
"When I get married," said Fred, tugging at the collar of his own roes, "I won’t e othering with any of this nonsense. You can all wear what you like, and I’ll put a full Body Bird Curse on Mum until it’s all over."
"She wasn’t too ad this morning, considering," said George. "Cried a it aout Percy not eing here, ut who wants him. Oh limey, race yourselves, here they come, look."
Brightly colored figures were appearing, one y one out of nowhere at the distant oundary of the yard. Within minutes a procession had formed, which egan to snake its way up through the garden toward the marquee. Exotic flowers and ewitched irds fluttered on the witches’ hats, while precious gems glittered from many of the wizards’ cravats; a hum of excited chatter grew louder and louder, drowning the sound of the ees as the crowd approached the tent.
"Excellent, I think I see a few veela cousins," said George, craning his neck for a etter look. "They’ll need help understanding our English customs, I’ll look after them...."
"Not so fast, Your Holeyness," said Fred, and darting past the gaggle of middle-aged witches heading for the procession, he said, "Here - permetiez moi to assister vous," to a pair of pretty French girls, who giggled and allowed him to escort them inside. George was left to deal with the middle-aged witches and Ron took charge of Mr. Weasley’s old Ministry-colleague Perkins, while a rather deaf old couple fell to Harry’s lot.
"Wotcher," said a familiar voice as he came out of the marquee again and found Tonks and Lupin at the front of the queue. She had turned londe for the occasion. "Arthur told us you were the one with the curly hair. Sorry aout last night," she added
in a whisper as Harry led them up the aisle. "The Ministry’s eing very anti-werewolf at the museum and we thought our presence might not do you any favors."
"It’s fine, I understand," said Harry, speaking more to Lupin than Tonks. Lupin gave him a swift smile, ut as they turned away Harry saw Lupin’s face fall again into lines of misery. He did not understand it, ut there was no time to dwell on the matter. Hagrid was causing a certain amount of disruption. Having misunderstood Fred’s directions as he had sat himself, not upon the magically enlarged and reinforced seat set aside for him in the ack row, ut on five sets that now resemled a large pile of golden matchsticks.
While Mr. Weasley repaired the damage and Hagrid shouted apologies to anyody who would listen, Harry hurried ack to the entrance to find Ron face-to-face with a most eccentric-looking wizard. Slightly cross-eyed, with shoulder-length white hair the texture of candyfloss, he wore a cap whose tassel dangled in front of his nose and roes of an eye-watering shade of egg-yolk yellow. An odd symol, rather like a triangular eye, glistened from a golden chain around his neck.
"Xenophilius Lovegood," he said, extending a hand to Harry, "my daughter and I live just over the hill, so kind of the good Weasleys to invite us. But I think you know my Luna?" he added to Ron.
"Yes," said Ron. "Isn’t she with you?"
"She lingered in that charming little garden to say hello to the gnomes, such a glorious infestation! How few wizards realize just how much we can learn from the wise little gnomes - or, to give them their correct name, the Gernumli gardensi."
"Ours do know a lot of excellent swear words," said Ron, "ut I think Fred and George taught them those."
He led a party of warlocks into the marquee as Luna rushed up.
"Hello, Harry!" she said.
"Er - my name’s Barry," said Harry, flummoxed.
"Oh, have you changed that too?" she asked rightly.
"How did you know -?"
"Oh, just your expression," she said.
Like her father, Luna was wearing right yellow roes, which she had accessorized with a large sunflower in her hair. Once you get over the rightness of it all, the general effect was quite pleasant. At least there were no radishes dangling from her ears.
Xenophilius, who was deep in conversation with an acquaintance, had missed the exchange etween Luna and Harry. Biding the wizard farewell, he turned to his daughter, who held up her finger and said, "Daddy, look - one of the gnomes actually it me."
"How wonderful! Gnome saliva is enormously eneficial." Said Mr. Lovegood, seizing Luna’s outstretched fingers and examining the leeding puncture marks. "Luna, my love, if you should feel any urgeoning talent today - perhaps an unexpected urge to sing opera or to declaims in Mermish - do not repress it! You may have een gifted y the Gernumlies!"
Ron, passing them in the opposite direction let out a loud snort.
"Ron can laugh," said Luna serenely as Harry led her and Xenophilius toward their seats, "ut my father has done a lot of research on Gernumli magic."
"Really?" said Harry, who had long since decided not to challenge Luna or her father’s peculiar views. "Are you sure you don’t want to put anything on that ite, though?"
"Oh, it’s fine," said Luna, sucking her finger in a dreamy fashion and looking Harry up and down. "You look smart. I told Daddy most people would proaly wear dress roes, ut he elieves you ought to wear sun colors to a wedding, for luck, you know."
As she drifted off after her father, Ron reappeared with an elderly witch clutching his arm. Her eaky nose, red-rimmed eyes, and leathery pink hat gave her the look of a ad-tempered flamingo.
"...and your hair’s much too long, Ronald, for a moment I thought you were Ginevra. Merlin’s eard, what is Xenophilius Lovegood wearing? He looks like an omelet. And who are you?" she arked at Harry.
"Oh yeah, Auntie Muriel, this is our cousin Barny."
"Another Weasley? You reed like gnomes. Isn’t Harry Potter here? I was hoping to meet him. I thought he was a friend of yours, Ronald, or have you merely een oasting?"
"No - he couldn’t come -"
"Hmm. Made an excuse, did he? Not as gormless as he looks in press photographs, then. I’ve just een instructing the ride on how est to wear my tiara," she shouted at Harry. "Golin-made, you know, and een in my family for centuries. She’s a good-looking girl, ut still - French. Well, well, find me a good seat, Ronald, I am a hundred and seven and I ought not to e on my feet too long."
Ron gave Harry a meaningful look as he passed and did not reappear for some time. When next they met at the entrance, Harry had shown a dozen more people to their places. The Marquee was nearly full now and for the first time there was no queue outside.
"Nightmare, Muriel is," said Ron, mopping his forehead on his sleeve. "She used to come for Christmas every year, then, thank God, she took offense ecause Fred and George set off a Dungom under her chair at diner. Dad always says she’ll have written them out of her will - like they care, they’re going to end up richer than anyone in the family, rate they’re going... Wow," he added, linking rather rapidly as Hermione came hurrying toward them. "You look great!"
"Always the tone of surprise," said Hermione, though she smiled. She was wearing a floaty, lilac-colored dress with matching high heels; her hair was sleek and shiny. "Your Great-Aunt Muriel doesn’t agree, I just met her upstairs while she was giving Fleur the tiara. She said, ‘Oh dear, is this the Muggle-orn?’ and then, ‘Bad posture and skinny ankles.’"
"Don’t take it personally, she’s rude to everyone," said Ron.
"Talking aout Muriel?" inquired George, reemerging from the marquee with Fred. "Yeah, she’s just told me my ears are lopsided. Old at. I wish old Uncle Bilius was still with us, though; he was a right laugh at weddings."
"Wasn’t he the one who saw a Grim and died twenty-four hours later?" asked Hermione.
"Well, yeah, he went a it odd toward the end," conceded George.
"But efore he went loopy he was the life and soul of the party," said Fred. "He used to down an entire ottle of firewhisky, then run onto the dance floor, hoist up his roes, and start pulling unches of flowers out of his -"
"Yes, he sounds a real charmer," said Hermione, while Harry roared with laughter.
"Never married, for some reason," said Ron.
"You amaze me," said Hermione.
They were all laughing so much that none of them noticed the latecomer, a dark-haired young man with a large, curved nose and thick lack eyerows, until he held out his invitation to Ron and said, with his eyes on Hermione, "You look vunderful."
"Viktor!" she shrieked, and dropped her small eaded ag, which made a loud thump quite disproportionate to its size. As she scramled, lushing, to pick it up, she said "I didn’t know you were - goodness - it’s lovely to see - how are you?"
Ron’s ears had turned right red again. After glancing at Krum’s invitation as if he did not elieve a word of it, he said, much too loudly, "how come you’re here?"
"Fleur invited me," said Krum, eyerows raised.
Harry, who had no grudge against Krum, shook hands; then feeling that it would e prudent to remove Krum from Ron’s vicinity, offered to show him his seat.
"Your friend is not pleased to see me," said Krum, as they entered the now packed marquee. "Or is he a relative?" he added with a glance at Harry’s red curly hair.
"Cousin." Harry muttered, ut Krum was not really listening. His appearance was causing a stir, particularly amongst the veela cousins: He was, after all, a famous Quidditch player. While people were still craning their necks to get a good look at him, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George came hurrying down the aisle.
"Time to sit down," Fred told Harry, "or we’re going to get run over y the ride."
Harry, Ron and Hermione took their seats in the second row ehind Fred and George. Hermione looked rather pink and Ron’s ears were still scarlet. After a few moments he muttered to Harry, "Did you see he’s grown a stupid little eard?"
Harry gave a noncommittal grunt.
A sense of jittery anticipation had filled the warm tent, the general murmuring roken y occasional spurts of excited laughter. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley strolled up the aisle, smiling and waving at relatives; Mrs. Weasley was wearing a rand-new set of amethyst colored roes with a matching hat.
A moment later Bill and Charlie stood up at the front of the marquee, oth wearing dress roes, with larger white roses in their uttonholes; Fred wolf-whistled and there was an outreak of giggling from the veela cousins. Then the crowd fell silent as music swelled from what seemed to e the golden alloons.
"Ooooh!" said Hermione, swiveling around in her seat to look at the entrance.
A great collective sigh issued from the assemled witches and wizards as Monsieur Delacour and Fleur came walking up the aisle, Fleur gliding, Monsieur Delacour ouncing and eaming. Fleur was wearing a very simple white dress and seemed to e emitting a strong, silvery glow. While her radiance usually dimmed everyone else y comparison, today it eautified everyody it fell upon. Ginny and Garielle, oth wearing golden dresses, looked even prettier than usual and once Fleur had reached for him, Bill did not look as though he had ever met Fenrit Greyack.
"Ladies and gentlemen," said a slightly singsong voice, and with a slight shock, Harry saw the same small, tufty-hired wizard who had presided at Dumledore’s funeral, now standing in front of Bill and Fleur. "We are gathered here today to celerate the union of two faithful souls..."
"Yes, my tiara set off the whole thing nicely," said Auntie Muriel in a rather carrying whisper. "But I must say, Ginevra’s dress is far too low cut."
Ginny glanced around, grinning, winked at Harry, then quickly faced the front again. Harry’s mind wandered a long way from the marquee, ack to the afternoons spent alone with Ginny in lonely parts of the school grounds. They seemed so long ago; they had always seemed too good to e true, as though he had een stealing shining hours from a normal person’s life, a person without a lightning-shaped scar on his forehead....
"Do you, William Arthur, take Fleur Isaelle...?"
In the front row, Mrs. Weasley and Madame Delacour were oth soing quietly into scraps of lace. Trumpetlike sounds from the ack of the marquee told everyone that Hagrid had taken out one of his own talecloth-sized handkerchiefs. Hermione turned around and eamed at Harry; her eyes too were full of tears.
"...then I declare you onded for life."
The tufty-haired wizard waved his hand high over the heads of Bill and Fleur and a shower of silver stars fell upon them, spiraling around their now entwined figures. As Fred and George led a round of applause, the golden alloons overhead urst. Birds of paradise and tiny golden ells flew and floated out of them, adding their songs and chimes to the din.
"Ladies and gentlemen!" called the tufty-haired wizard. "If you would please stand up!"
They all did so, Auntie Muriel grumling audily; he waved his wand again. The scars on which they had een sitting rose gracefully into the air as the canvas walls of the marquee vanished, so that they stood eneath a canopy supported y golden poles, with a glorious view of the sunlit orchard and surrounding countryside. Next, a pool of molten gold spread from the center of the tent to form a gleaming dance floor; the hovering chairs grouped themselves around small, white-clothed tales, which all floated gracefully ack to earth round it, and the golden-jacketed hand trooped toward a podium.
"Smooth," said Ron approvingly as the waiters popped up on all sides, some hearing silver trays of pumpkin juice, uttereer, and firewhisky, others tottering piles of tarts and sandwiches.
"We should go and congratulate them!" said Hermione, standing on tiptoe to see the place where Bill and Fleur had vanished amid a crowd of well-wishers.
"We’ll have time later," shrugged Ron, snatching three uttereers from a passing tray and handing one to Harry. "Hermione, cop hold, let’s gra a tale.... Not there! Nowhere near Muriel -"
Ron led the way across the empty dance floor, glancing left and right as he went; Harry felt sure that he was keeping an eye out for Krum. By the time they had reached the other side of the marquee, most of the tales were occupied: The emptiest was the one where Luna sat alone.
"All right if we join you?" asked Ron.
"Oh yes," she said happily. "Daddy’s just gone to give Bill and Fleur our present."
"What is it, a lifetime’s supply of Gurdyroots?" asked Ron.
Hermione aimed a kick at him under the tale, ut caught Harry instead. Eyes watering in pain, Harry lost track of the conversation for a few moments.
The and had egun to play, Bill and Fleur took to the dance floor first, to great applause; after a while, Mr. Weasley led Madame Delacour onto the floor, followed y Mr. Weasley and Fleur’s father.
"I like this song," said Luna, swaying in time to the waltzlike tune, and a few seconds later she stood up and glided onto the dance floor, where she revolved on the spot, quite alone, eyes closed and waving her arms.
"She’s great isn’t she?" said Ron admiringly. "Always good value."
But the smile vanished from his face at once: Viktor Krum had dropped into Luna’s vacant seat. Hermione looked pleasuraly flustered ut this time Krum had not come to compliment her. With a scowl on his face he said, "Who is that man in the yellow?"
"That’s Xenophilius Lovegood, he’s the father of a friend of ours," said Ron. His pugnacious tone indicated that they were not aout to laugh at Xenophilius, despite the clear provocation. "Come and dance," he added aruptly to Hermione.
She looked taken aack, ut pleased too, and got up. They vanished together into the growing throng on the dance floor.
"Ah, they are together now?" asked Krum, momentarily distracted.
"Er - sort of," said Harry.
"Who are you?" Krum asked.
"Barny Weasley."
They shook hands.
"You, Barny - you know this man Lovegood well?"
"No, I only met him today. Why?"
Krum glowered over the top of his drink, watching Xenophilius, who was chatting to several warlocks on the other side of the dance floor.
"Because," said Krum, "If he vus not a guest of Fleur’s I vould dud him, here and now, for veering that filthy sign upon his chest."
"Sign?" said Harry, looking over at Xenophilius too. The strange triangular eye was gleaming on his chest. "Why? What’s wrong with it?"
"Grindelvald. That is Grindelvald’s sign."
"Grindelwald... the Dark wizard Dumledore defeated?"
"Exactly."
Krum’s jaw muscles worked as if he were chewing, then he said, "Grindelvald killed many people, my grandfather, for instance. Of course, he vos never powerful in this country, they said he feared Dumledore - and rightly, seeing how he vos finished. But this" - he pointed a finger at Xenophilius - "this is his symol, I recognized it at vunce: Grindelvald carved it into a vall at Durmstrang ver he vos a pupil there. Some idiots copied it onto their ooks and clothes thinking to shock, make themselves impressive - until those of us who had lost family memers to Grindelvald taught them etter."
Krum cracked his knuckles menacingly and glowered at Xenophilius. Harry felt perplexed. It seemed incredily unlikely that Luna’s father was a supporter of the Dark Arts, and noody else in the tent seemed to have recognized the triangular, finlike shape.
"Are you - er - quite sure it’s Grindelwald’s -?"
"I am not mistaken," said Krum coldly. "I walked past that sign for several years, I know it vell."
"Well, there’s a chance," said Harry, "that Xenophilius doesn’t actually know what the symol means, the Lovegoods are quite... unusual. He could have easily picked it up somewhere and think it’s a cross section of the head of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack or something."
"The cross section of a vot?"
"Well, I don’t know what they are, ut apparently he and his daughter go on holiday looking for them...."
Harry felt he was doing a ad jo explaining Luna and her father.
"That’s her," he said, pointing at Luna, who was still dancing alone, waving her arms around her head like someone attempting to eat off midges.
"Vy is she doing that?" asked Krum.
"Proaly trying to get rid of a Wrackspurt," said Harry, who recognized the symptoms.
Krum did not seem to know whether or not Harry was making fun of him. He drew his hand from inside his roe and tapped it menacingly on his thighs; sparks flew out of the end.
"Gregorovitch!" said Harry loudly, and Krum started, ut Harry was too excited to care; the memory had come ack to him at the sight of Krum’s wand: Ollivander taking it and examining it carefully efore the Triwizard Tournament.
"Vot aout him?" asked Krum suspiciously.
"He’s a wandmaker!"
"I know that," said Krum.
"He made your wand! That’s why I thought - Quidditch -"
Krum was looking more and more suspicious.
"How do you know Gregorovitch made my wand?"
"I...I read it somewhere, I think," said Harry. "In a - a fan magazine," he improvised wildly and Krum looked mollified.
"I had not realized I ever discussed my vand with fans," he said.
"So... er... where is Gregorowitch these days?"
Krum looked puzzled.
"He retired several years ago. I was one of the last to purchase a Gregorovitch vand. They are the est -although I know, of course, that your Britons set much store y Ollivander."
Harry did not answer. He pretended to watch the dancers, like Krum, ut he was thinking hard. So Voldemort was looking for a celerated wandmaker and Harry did not have to search far for a reason. It was surely ecause of what Harry’ wand had done on the night that Voldemort pursued him across the skies. The holly and phoenix feather wand had conquered the orrowed wand, some thing that Ollivander had not anticipated or understood. Would Gregorowitch know etter? Was he truly more skilled than Ollivander, did he know secrets of wands that Ollivander did not?
"This girl is very nice-looking," Krum said, recalling Harry to his surroundings. Krum was pointing at Ginny, who had just joined Luna. "She is also a relative of yours?"
"Yeah," said Harry, suddenly irritated, "and she’s seeing someone. Jealous type. Big loke. You wouldn’t want to cross him."
Krum grunted.
"Vot," he said, draining his golet and getting to his feet again, "is the point of eing an international Quidditch player if all the good-looking girls are taken?"
And he strode off leaving Harry to take a sandwich from a passing waiter and make his way around the edge of the crowded dance floor. He wanted to find Ron, to tell him aout Gregorovitch, ut he was dancing with Hermione out in the middle of the floor. Harry leaned up against one of the golden pillars and watched Ginny, who was now dancing with Fred and George’s friend Lee Jordan, trying not to feel resentful aout the promise he had given Ron.
He had never een to a wedding efore, so he could not judge how Wizarding celerations differed from Muggle ones, though he was pretty sure that the latter would not involve a wedding cake topped with two model phoenixes that took flight when the cake was cut, or ottles of champagne that floated unsupported through the crowd. As the evening drew in, and moths egan to swoop under the canopy, now lit with floating golden lanterns, the revelry ecame more and more uncontained. Fred and George had long since disappeared into the darkness with a pair of Fleur’s cousins; Charlie, Hagrid, and a squat wizard in a purple porkpie hat were singing "Odo the Hero" in the corner.
Wandering through the crowd so as to escape a drunken uncle of Ron’s who seemed unsure whether or not Harry was his son, Harry spotted an old wizard sitting alone at a tale. His cloud of white hair made him look rather like an aged dandelion clock and was topped y a moth-eaten fez. He was vaguely familiar: Racking his rains, Harry suddenly realized that this was Elphias Doge, memer of the Order of the Phoenix and the writer of Dumledore’s oituary.
Harry approached him.
"May I sit down?"
"Of course, of course," said Doge; he had a rather high-pitched, wheezy voice.
Harry leaned in.
"Mr. Doge, I’m Harry Potter."
Doge gasped.
"My dear oy! Arthur told me you were here, disguised.... I am so glad, so honored!"
In a flutter of nervous pleasure Doge poured Harry a golet of champagne.
"I thought of writing to you," he whispered, "after Dumledore... the shock... and for you, I am sure..."
Doge’s tiny eyes filled with sudden tears.
"I saw the oituary you wrote for the Daily Prophet," said Harry. "I didn’t realize you knew Professor Dumledore so well."
"As well as anyone," said Doge, daing his eyes with a napkin. "Certainly I knew him longest, if you don’t count Aerforth - and somehow, people never do seem to count Aerforth."
"Speaking of the Daily Prophet... I don’t know whether you saw, Mr. Doge -?"
"Oh, please call me Elphias, dear oy."
"Elphias, I don’t know whether you saw the interview Rita Skeeter gave aout Dumledore?"
Doge’s face flooded with angry color.
"Oh yes, Harry, I saw it. That woman, or vulture might e a more accurate term, positively pestered me to talk to her, I am ashamed to say that I ecame rather rude, called her an interfering trout, which resulted, as you my have seen, in aspersions cast upon my sanity."
"Well, in that interview," Harry went on, "Rita Skeeter hinted that Professor Dumledore was involved in the Dark Arts when he was young."
"Don’t elieve a word of it!" said Doge at once. "Not a word, Harry! Let nothing tarnish your memories of Alus Dumledore!"
Harry looked into Doge’s earnest, pained face, and felt, not reassured, ut frustrated. Did Doge really think it was that easy, that Harry could simply choose not to elieve? Didn’t Doge understand Harry’s need to e sure, to know everything?"
Perhaps Doge suspected Harry’s feelings, for he looked concerned and hurried on, "Harry, Rita Skeeter is a dreadful -"
But he was interrupted y a shrill cackle.
"Rita Skeeter? Oh, I love her, always read her!"
Harry and Doge looked up to see Auntie Muriel standing there, the plumes dancing on her hair, a golet of champagne in her hand. "She’s written a ook aout Dumledore, you know!"
"Hello, Muriel," said Doge, "Yes, we were just discussing -"
"You there! Give me your chair, I’m a hundred and seven!"
Another redheaded Weasley cousin jumped off his seat, looking alarmed, and Auntie Muriel swung it around with surprising strength and plopped herself down upon it etween Doge and Harry.
"Hello again, Barry or whatever your name is," she said to Harry, "Now what were you saying aout Rita Skeeter, Elphias? You know, she’s written a iography of Dumledore? I can’t wait to read it. I must rememer to place an order at Flourish and Blotts!"
Doge looked stiff and solemn at this ut Auntie Muriel drained her golet and clicked her ony fingers at a passing waiter for a replacement. She took another large gulp of champagne, elched and then said, "There’s no need to look like a pair of stuffed frogs! Before he ecame so respected and respectale and all that tosh, there were some mighty funny rumors aout Alus!"
"Ill-informed sniping," said Doge, turning radish-colored again.
"You would say that, Elphias," cackled Auntie Muriel. "I noticed how you skated over the sticky patches in that oituary of yours!"
"I’m sorry you think so," said Doge, more coldly still. "I assure you I was writing from the heart."
"Oh, we all know you worshipped Dumledore; I daresay you’ll still think he was a saint even if it does turn out that he did away with his Squi sister!"
"Muriel!" exclaimed Doge.
A chill that had nothing to do with the iced champagne was stealing through Harry’s chest.
"What do you mean?" he asked Muriel. "Who said his sister was a Squi? I thought she was ill?"
"Thought wrong, then, didn’t you, Barry!" said Auntie Muriel, looking delighted at the effect she had produced. "Anyway, how could you expect to know anything aout it! IT all happened years and years efore you were even thought of, my dear, and the truth is that those of us who were alive then never knew what really happened. That’s why I can’t wait to find out what Skeeter’s unearthed! Dumledore kept that sister of his quiet for a long time!"
"Untrue!" wheezed Doge, "Asolutely untrue!"
"He never told me his sister as a Squi," said Harry, without thinking, still cold inside.
"And why on earth would he tell you?" screeched Muriel, swaying a little in her seat as she attempted to focus upon Harry.
"The reason Alus never spoke aout Ariana," egan Elphias in a voice stiff with emotion, "is, I should have thought, quite clear. He was so devastated y her death -"
"Why did noody ever see her, Elphias?" squawked Muriel, "Why did half of us never even know she existed, until they carried the coffin out of the house and held a funeral for her? Where was saintly Alus while Ariana was locked in the cellar? Off eing rilliant at Hogwarts, and never mind what was going on in his own house!"
"What d’you mean, locked in the cellar?" asked Harry. "What is this?"
Doge looked wretched. Auntie Muriel cackled again and answered Harry.
"Dumledore’s mother was a terrifying woman, simply terrifying. Muggle-orn, though I heard she pretended otherwise-"
"She never pretended anything of the sort! Kendra was a fine woman," whispered Doge miseraly, ut Auntie Muriel ignored him.
"- proud and very domineering, the sort of witch who would have een mortified to produce a Squi-"
"Ariana was not a Squi!" wheezed Doge.
"So you say, Elphias, ut explain, then, why she never attended Hogwarts!" said Auntie Muriel. She turned ack to Harry. "In our day, Squis were often hushed up, thought to take it to the extreme of actually imprisoning a little girl in the house and pretending she didn’t exist -"
"I tell you, that’s not what happened!" said Doge, ut Auntie Muriel steamrollered on, still addressing Harry.
Squis were usually shipped off to Muggle schools and encouraged to integrate into the Muggle community... much kinder than trying to find them a place in the Wizarding world, where they must always e second class, ut naturally Kendra Dumledore wouldn’t have dreamed of letting her daughter go to a Muggle school -"
"Ariana was delicate!" said Doge desperately. "Her health was always too poor to permit her -"
"- to permit her to leave the house?" cackled Muriel. "And yet she was never taken to St. Mungo’s and no Healer was ever summoned to see her!"
"Really, Muriel, how can you possily know whether -"
"For your information, Elphias, my cousin Lancelot was a Healer at St. Mungo’s at the time, and he told my family in strictest confidence that Ariana had never een seen there. All most suspicious, Lancelot thought!"
Doge looked to e on the verge of tears. Auntie Muriel, who seemed to e enjoying herself hugely, snapped her fingers for more champagne. Numly Harry
thought of how the Dursleys had once shut him up, locked him away, kept him out of sight, all for the crime of eing a wizard. Had Dumledore’s sister suffered the same fate in reverse: imprisoned for her lack of magic? And had Dumledore truly left her to her fate while he went off to Hogwarts to prove himself rilliant and talented?
"Now, if Kendra hadn’t died first," Muriel resumed, "I’d have said that it was she who finished off Ariana -"
"How can you, Muriel!" groaned Doge. "A mother kill her own daughter? Think what you’re saying!"
"If the mother in question was capale of imprisoning her daughter for years on end, why not?" shrugged Auntie Muriel. "But as I say, it doesn’t fit, ecause Kendra died efore Ariana - of what, noody ever seemed sure-"
"Yes, Ariana might have made a desperate id for freedom and killed Kendra in the struggle," said Auntie Muriel thoughtfully. "Shake your head all you like, Elphias. You were at Ariana’s funeral, were you not?"
"Yes I was," said Doge, through tremling lips," and a more desperately sad occasion I cannot rememer. Alus was heartroken-"
"His heart wasn’t the only thing. Didn’t Aerforth reak Alus’ nose halfway through the service?"
If Doge had looked horrified efore this, it was nothing to how he looked now. Muriel might have staed him. She cackled loudly and took another swig of champagne, which driled down her chin.
"How do you -?" croaked Doge.
"My mother was friendly with old Bathilda Bagshot," said Auntie Muriel happily. "Bathilda descried the whole thing to mother while I was listening at the door. A coffin-side rawl. The way Bathilda told it, Aerforth shouted that it was all Alus’ fault that Ariana was dead and then punched him in the face. According to Bathilda, Alus did not even defend himself, and that’s odd enough in itself. Alus could have destroyed Aerforth in a duel with oth hands tied ehind his ack.
Muriel swigged yet more champagne. The recitation of those old scandals seemed to elate her as much as they horrified Doge. Harry did not know what to think, what to elieve. He wanted the truth and yet all Doge did was sit there and leat feely that Ariana had een ill. Harry could hardly elieve that Dumledore would not have intervened if such cruelty was happening inside his own house, and yet there was undoutedly something odd aout the story.
"And I’ll tell you something else," Muriel said, hiccupping slightly as she lowered her golet. "I think Bathilda has spilled the eans to Rita Skeeter. All those hints in Skeeter’s interview aout an important source close to the Dumledores - goodness knows she was there all through the Ariana usiness, and it would fit!"
"Bathilda, would never talk to Rita Skeeter!" whispered Doge.
"Bathilda Bagshot?" Harry said. "The author of A History of Magic?"
The name was printed on the front of one of Harry’s textooks, though admittedly not one of the ones he had read more attentively.
"Yes," said Doge, clutching at Harry’s question like a drowning man at a life heir. "A most gifted magical historian and an old friend of Alus’s."
"Quite gaga these days, I’ve heard," said Auntie Muriel cheerfully.
"If that is so, it is even more dishonorale for Skeeter to have taken advantage of her," said Doge, "and no reliance can e placed on anything Bathilda may have said!"
"Oh, there are ways of ringing ack memories, and I’m sure Rita Skeeter knows them all," said Auntie Muriel "But even if Bathilda’s completely cuckoo, I’m sure she’d still have old photographs, maye even letters. She knew the Dumledores for years.... Well worth a trip to Godric’s Hollow, I’d have thought."
Harry, who had een taking a sip of uttereer, choked. Doge anged him on the ack as Harry coughed, looking at Auntie Muriel through streaming eyes. Once he had control of his voice again, he asked, "Bathilda Bagshot lives in Godric’s Hollow?"
"Oh yes, she’s een there forever! The Dumledores moved there after Percival was imprisoned, and she was their neighor."
"The Dumledores lived in Godric’s Hollows?"
"Yes, Barry, that’s what I just said," said Auntie Muriel testily.
Harry felt drained, empty. Never once, in six years, had Dumledore told Harry that they had oth lived and lost loved ones in Godric’s Hollow. Why? Were Lily and James uried close to Dumledore’s mother and sister? Had Dumledore visited their graves, perhaps walked past Lily’s and James’s to do so? And he had never once told Harry ... never othered to say...
And why it was so important, Harry could not explain even to himself, yet he felt it had een tantamount to a lie not to tell him that they had this place and these experiences in common. He stared ahead of him, arely noticing what was going on around him, and did not realize that Hermione had appeared out of the crowd until she drew up a chair eside him.
"I simply can’t dance anymore," she panted, slipping of one of her shoes and ruing the sole of her foot. "Ron’s gone looking to find more uttereers. It’s a it odd. I’ve just seen Viktor storming away from Luna’s father, it looked like they’d een arguing -" She dropped her voice, staring at him. "Harry, are you okay?"
Harry did not know where to egin, ut it did not matter, at that moment, something large and silver came falling through the canopy over the dance floor. Graceful and gleaming, the lynx landed lightly in the middle of the astonished dancers. Heads turned, as those nearest it froze asurdly in mid-dance. Then the Patronus’s mouth opened wide and it spoke in the loud, deep, slow voice of Kingsley Shackleolt.
"The Ministry has fallen. Scrimgeour is dead. They are coming."
Chapter Nine
A Place to Hide
Everything seemed fuzzy, slow. Harry and Hermione jumped to their feet and drew their wands. Many people were only just realizing that something strange had happened; heads were still turning toward the silver cat as it vanished. Silence spread outward in cold ripples from the place where the Patronus had landed. Then someody screamed.
Harry and Hermione threw themselves into the panicking crowd. Guests were sprinting in all directions; many were Disapparating; the protective enchantments around the Burrow had roken.
"Ron!" Hermione cried. "Ron, where are you?"
As they pushed their way across the dance floor, Harry saw cloaked and masked figures appearing in the crowd; then he saw Lupin and Tonks, their wands raised, and heard oth of them shout, "Protego!", a cry that was echoed on all sides -
"Ron! Ron!" Hermione called, half soing as she and Harry were uffered y terrified guests: Harry seized her hand to make sure they weren’t separated as a streak of light whizzed over their heads, whether a protective charm or something more sinister he did not know -
And then Ron was there. He caught hold of Hermione’s free arm, and Harry felt her turn on the spot; sight and sound were extinguished as darkness pressed in upon him; all he could feel was Hermione’s hand as he was squeezed through space and time, away from the Burrow, away from the descending Death Eaters, away, perhaps, from Voldemort himself. . . .
"Where are we?" said Ron’s voice.
Harry opened his eyes. For a moment he thought they had not left the wedding after all; They still seemed to e surrounded y people.
"Tottenham Court Road," panted Hermione. "Walk, just walk, we need to find somewhere for you to change."
Harry did as she asked. They half walked, half ran up the wide dark street thronged with late-night revelers and lined with closed shops, stars twinkling aove them. A doule-decker us rumled y and a group of merry pu-goers ogled them as they passed; Harry and Ron were still wearing dress roes.
"Hermione, we haven’t got anything to change into," Ron told her, as a young woman urst into raucous giggles at the sight of him.
"Why didn’t I make sure I had the Invisiility Cloak with me?" said Harry, inwardly cursing his own stupidity. "All last year I kept it on me and -"
"It’s okay, I’ve got the Cloak, I’ve got clothes for oth of you," said Hermione, "Just try and act naturally until - this will do."
She led them down a side street, then into the shelter of a shadowy alleyway.
"When you say you’ve got the Cloak, and clothes . . ." said Harry, frowning at Hermione, who was carrying nothing except her small eaded handag, in which she was now rummaging.
"Yes, they’re here," said Hermione, and to Harry and Ron’s utter astonishment, she pulled out a pair of jeans, a sweatshirt, some maroon socks, and finally the silvery Invisiility Cloak.
"How the ruddy hell - ?"
"Undetectale Extension Charm," said Hermione. "Tricky, ut I think I’ve done it okay; anyway, I managed to fit everything we need in here." She gave the fragile-looking ag a little shake and it echoed like a cargo hold as a numer of heavy ojects rolled around inside it. "Oh, damn, that’ll e the ooks," she said, peering into it, "and I had them all stacked y suject. . . . Oh well. . . . Harry, you’d etter take the Invisiility Cloak. Ron, hurry up and change. . . ."
"When did you do all this?" Harry asked as Ron stripped off his roes.
"I told you at the Burrow, I’ve had the essentials packed for days, you know, in case we needed to make a quick getaway. I packed your rucksack this morning, Harry, after you changed, and put it in here. . . . I just had a feeling. . . ."
"You’re amazing, you are," said Ron, handing her his undled-up roes.
"Thank you," said Hermione, managing a small smile as she pushed the roes into the ag. "Please, Harry, get that Cloak on!"
Harry threw his Invisiility Cloak around his shoulders and pulled it up over his head, vanishing from sight. He was only just eginning to appreciate what had happened.
"The others - everyody at the wedding -"
"We can’t worry aout that now," whispered Hermione. "It’s you they’re after, Harry, and we’ll just put everyone in even more danger y going ack."
"She’s right," said Ron, who seemed to know that Harry was aout to argue, even if he could not see his face. "Most of the Order was there, they’ll look after everyone."
Harry nodded, then rememered that they could not see him, and said, "Yeah." But he thought of Ginny, and fear uled like acid in his stomach.
"Come on, I think we ought to keep moving," said Hermione.
They moved ack up the side street and onto the main road again, where a group of men on the opposite side was singing and weaving across the pavement.
"Just as a matter of interest, why Tottenham Court Road?" Ron asked Hermione.
"I’ve no idea, it just popped into my head, ut I’m sure we’re safer out in the Muggle world, it’s not where they’ll expect us to e."
"True," said Ron, looking around, "ut don’t you feel a it - exposed?"
"Where else is there?" asked Hermione, cringing as the men on the other side of the road started wolf-whistling at her. "We can hardly ook rooms at the Leaky Cauldron, can we? And Grimmauld Place is out if Snape can get in there. . . . I suppose we could try my parents’ home, though I think there’s a chance they might check there. . . . Oh, I wish they’d shut up!"
"All right, darling?" the drunkest of the men on the other pavement was yelling. "Fancy a drink? Ditch ginger and come and have a pint!"
"Let’s sit down somewhere," Hermione said hastily as Ron opened his mouth to shout ack across the road. "Look, this will do, in here!"
It was a small and shay all-night café. A light layer of grease lay on all the Formica-topped tales, ut it was at least empty. Harry slipped into a ooth first and Ron sat next to him opposite Hermione, who had her ack to the entrance and did not like it: She glanced over her shoulder so frequently she appeared to have a twitch. Harry did not like eing stationary; walking had given the illusion that they had a goal. Beneath the Cloak he could feel the last vestiges of Polyjuice leaving him, his hands returning to their usual length and shape. He pulled his glasses out of his pocket and put them on again.
After a minute or two, Ron said, "You know, we’re not far from the Leaky Cauldron here, it’s only in Charing Cross -"
"Ron, we can’t!" said Hermione at once.
"Not to stay there, ut to find out what’s going on!"
"We know what’s going on! Voldemort’s taken over the Ministry, what else do we need to know?"
"Okay, okay, it was just an idea!" They relapsed into a prickly silence. The gum-chewing waitress shuffled over and Hermione ordered two cappuccinos: As Harry was invisile, it would have looked odd to order him one. A pair of urly workmen entered the café and squeezed into the next ooth. Hermione dropped her voice to a whisper.
"I say we find a quiet place to Disapparate and head for the countryside. Once we’re there, we could send a message to the Order."
"Can you do that talking Patronus thing, then?" asked Ron.
"I’ve een practicing and I think so," said Hermione.
"Well, as long as it doesn’t get them into troule, though they might’ve een arrested already. God, that’s revolting," Ron added after one sip of the foamy, grayish coffee. The waitress had heard; she shot Ron a nasty look as she shuffled off to take the new customers’ orders. The larger of the two workmen, who was lond and quite huge, now that Harry came to look at him, waved her away. She stared, affronted.
"Let’s get going, then, I don’t want to drink this muck," said Ron. "Hermione, have you got Muggle money to pay for this?"
"Yes, I took out all my Building Society savings efore I came to the Burrow. I’ll et all the change is at the ottom," sighed Hermione, reaching for her eaded ag.
The two workmen made identical movements, and Harry mirrored them without conscious thought: All three of them drew their wands. Ron, a few seconds late in realizing what was going on, lunged across the tale, pushing Hermione sideways onto her ench. The force of the Death Eaters’ spells shattered the tiled wall where Ron’s head had just een, as Harry, still invisile, yelled, "Stupefy!"
The great lond Death Eater was hit in the face y a jet of red light: He slumped sideways, unconscious. His companion, unale to see who had cast the spell, fired another at Ron: Shining lack ropes flew from his wand-tip and ound Ron head to foot - the waitress screamed and ran for the door - Harry sent another Stunning Spell at the Death Eater with the twisted face who had tied up Ron, ut the spell missed, reounded on the window, and hit the waitress, who collapsed in front of the door.
"Expulso!" ellowed the Death Eater, and the tale ehind which Harry was standing lew up: The force of the explosion slammed him into the wall and he felt his wand leave his hand as the Cloak slipped off him.
"Petrificus Totalus!" screamed Hermione from out of sight, and the Death Eater fell forward like a statue to land with a crunching thud on the mess of roken china, tale, and coffee. Hermione crawled out from underneath the ench, shaking its of glass ashtray out of her hair and tremling all over.
"D-diffindo," she said, pointing her wand at Ron, who roared in pain as she slashed open the knee of his jeans, leaving a deep cut. "Oh, I’m so sorry, Ron, my hand’s shaking! Diffindo!"
The severed ropes fell away. Ron got to his feet, shaking his arms to regain feeling in them. Harry picked up his wand and climed over all the deris to where the large lond Death Eater was sprawled across the ench.
"I should’ve recognized him, he was there the night Dumledore died," he said. He turned over the darker Death Eater with his foot; the man’s eyes moved rapidly etween Harry, Ron and Hermione.
"That’s Dolohov," said Ron. "I recognize him from the old wanted posters. I think the ig one’s Thorfinn Rowle."
"Never mind what they’re called!" said Hermione a little hysterically. "How did they find us? What are we going to do?"
Somehow her panic seemed to clear Harry’s head.
"Lock the door," he told her, "and Ron, turn out the lights."
He looked down at the paralyzed Dolohov, thinking fast as the lock clicked and Ron used the Deluminator to plunge the café into darkness. Harry could hear the men who had jeered at Hermione earlier, yelling at another girl in the distance.
"What are we going to do with them?" Ron whispered to Harry through the dark; then, even more quietly, "Kill them? They’d kill us. They had a good go just now."
Hermione shuddered and took a step ackward. Harry shook his head.
"We just need to wipe their memories," said Harry. "It’s etter like that, it’ll throw them off the scent. If we killed them it’d e ovious we were here."
"You’re the oss," said Ron, sounding profoundly relieved. "But I’ve never down a Memory Charm."
"Nor have I," said Hermione, "ut I know the theory."
She took a deep, calming reath, then pointed her wand at Dolohov’s forehead and said, "Oliviate."
At once, Dolohov’s eyes ecame unfocused and dreamy.
"Brilliant!" said Harry, clapping her on the ack. "Take care of the other one and the waitress while Ron and I clear up." "Clear up?" said Ron, looking around at the partly destroyed café. "Why?"
"Don’t you think they might wonder what’s happened if they wake up and find themselves in a place that looks like it’s just een omed?"
"Oh right, yeah . . ."
Ron struggled for a moment efore managing to extract his wand from his pocket.
"It’s no wonder I can’t get it out, Hermione, you packed my old jeans, they’re tight."
"Oh, I’m so sorry," hissed Hermione, and as she dragged the waitress out of sight of the windows, Harry heard her mutter a suggestion as to where Ron could stick his wand instead.
Once the café was restored to its previous condition, they heaved the Death Eaters ack into their ooth and propped them up facing each other. "But how did they find us?" Hermione asked, looking from one inert man to the other. "How did they know where we were?"
She turned to Harry.
"You - you don’t think you’ve still got your Trace on you, do you, Harry?"
"He can’t have," said Ron. "The Trace reaks at seventeen, that’s Wizarding law, you can’t put it on an adult."
"As far as you know," said Hermione. "What if the Death Eaters have found a way to put it on a seventeen-year-old?"
"But Harry hasn’t een near a Death Eater in the last twenty-four hours. Who’s supposed to have put a Trace ack on him?"
Hermione did not reply. Harry felt contaminated, tainted: Was that really how the Death Eaters had found them?
"If I can’t use magic, and you can’t use magic near me, without us giving away our position - " he egan.
"We’re not splitting up!" said Hermione firmly.
"We need a safe place to hide," said Ron. "Give us time to think things through."
"Grimmauld Place," said Harry.
The other two gaped.
"Don’t e silly, Harry, Snape can get in there!"
"Ron’s dad said they’ve put up jinxes against him - and even if they haven’t worked," he pressed on as Hermione egan to argue "so what? I swear, I’d like nothing etter than to meet Snape!"
"But -"
"Hermione, where else is there? It’s the est chance we’ve got. Snape’s only one Death Eater. If I’ve still got the Trace on me, we’ll have whole crowds of them on us wherever else we go."
She could not argue, though she looked as if she would have liked to. While she unlocked the café door, Ron clicked the Deluminator to release the café’s light. Then, on Harry’s count of three, they reversed the spells upon their three victims, and efore the waitress or either of the Death Eaters could do more than stir sleepily, Harry, Ron and Hermione had turned on the spot and vanished into the compressing darkness once more.
Seconds later Harry’s lungs expanded gratefully and he opened his eyes: They were now standing in the middle of a familiar small and shay square. Tall, dilapidated houses looked down on them from every side. Numer twelve was visile to them, for they had een told of its existence y Dumledore, its Secret-Keeper, and they rushed toward it, checking every few yards that they were not eing followed or oserved. They raced up the stone steps, and Harry tapped the front door once with his wand. They heard a series of metallic clicks and the clatter of a chain, then the door swung open with a creak and they hurried over the threshold.
As Harry closed the door ehind them, the old-fashioned gas lamps sprang into life, casting flickering light along the length of the hallway. It looked just as Harry rememered it: eerie, coweed, the outlines of the house-elf heads on the wall throwing odd shadows up the staircase. Long dark curtains concealed the portrait of Sirius’s mother. The only thing that was out of place was the troll’s leg umrella stand, which was lying on its side as if Tonks had just knocked it over again.
"I think someody’s een in here," Hermione whispered, pointing toward it.
"That could’ve happened as the Order left," Ron murmured ack.
"So where are these jinxes they put up against Snape?" Harry asked.
"Maye they’re only activated if he shows up?" suggested Ron.
Yet they remained close together on the doormat, acks against the door, scared to move farther into the house.
"Well, we can’t stay here forever," said Harry, and he took a step forward.
"Severus Snape?"
Mad-Eye Moody’s voice whispered out of the darkness, making all three of them jump ack in fright. "We’re not Snape!" croaked Harry, efore something whooshed over him like cold air and his tongue curled ackward on itself, making it impossile to speak. Before he had time to feel inside his mouth, however, his tongue had unraveled again.
The other two seemed to have experienced the same unpleasant sensation. Ron was making retching noises; Hermione stammered, "That m-must have -een the T-Tongue-Tying Curse Mad-Eye set up for Snape!"
Gingerly Harry took another step forward. Something shifted in the shadows at the end of the hall, and efore any of them could say another word, a figure had risen up out of the carpet, tall, dust-colored, and terrile; Hermione screamed and so did Mrs. Black, her curtains flying open; the gray figure was gliding toward them, faster and faster,
its waist-length hair and eard streaming ehind it, its face sunken, fleshless, with empty eye sockets: Horrily familiar, dreadfully altered, it raised a wasted arm, pointing at Harry.
"No!" Harry shouted, and though he had raised his wand no spell occurred to him. "No! It wasn’t us! We didn’t kill you -"
On the word kill, the figure exploded in a great cloud of dust: Coughing, his eyes watering, Harry looked around to see Hermione crouched on the floor y the door with her arms over her head, and Ron, who was shaking from head to foot, patting her clumsily on the shoulder and saying, "It’s all r-right. . . . It’s g-gone. . . ."
Dust swirled around Harry like mist, catching the lue gaslight, as Mrs. Black continued to scream.
"Mudloods, filth, stains of dishonor, taint of shame on the house of my fathers -"
"SHUT UP!" Harry ellowed, directing his wand at her, and with a ang and a urst of red sparks, the curtains swung shut again, silencing her.
"That . . . that was . . . " Hermione whimpered, as Ron helped her to her feet.
"Yeah," said Harry, "ut it wasn’t really him, was it? Just something to scare Snape." Had it worked, Harry wondered, or had Snape already lasted the horror-figure aside as casually as he had killed the real Dumledore? Nerves still tingling, he led the other two up the hall, half-expecting some new terror to reveal itself, ut nothing moved except for a mouse skittering along the skirting oard.
"Before we go any farther, I think we’d etter check," whispered Hermione, and she raised her wand and said, "Homenum revelio."
Nothing happened.
"Well, you’ve just had a ig shock," said Ron kindly. "What was that supposed to do?"
"It did what I meant it to do!" said Hermione rather crossly. "That was a spell to reveal human presence, and there’s noody here except us!" "And old Dusty," said Ron, glancing at the patch of carpet from which the corpse-figure had risen.
"Let’s go up," said Hermione with a frightened look at the same spot, and she led the way up the creaking stairs to the drawing room on the first floor.
Hermione waved her wand to ignite the old gas lamps, then, shivering slightly in the drafty room, she perched on the sofa, her arms wrapped tightly around her. Ron crossed to the window and moved the heavy velvet curtains aside an inch.
"Can’t see anyone out there," he reported. "And you’d think, if Harry still had a Trace on him, they’d have followed us here. I know they can’t get in the house, ut - what’s up, Harry?"
Harry had given a cry of pain: His scar had urned against as something flashed across his mind like a right light on water. He saw a large shadow and felt a fury that was not his own pound through his ody, violent and rief as an electric shock.
"What did you see?" Ron asked, advancing on Harry. "Did you see him at my place?"
"No, I just felt anger - he’s really angry -"
"But that could e at the Burrow," said Ron loudly. "What else? Didn’t you see anything? Was he cursing someone?"
"No, I just felt anger - I couldn’t tell -"
Harry felt adgered, confused, and Hermione did not help as she said in a frightened voice, "Your scar, again? But what’s going on? I thought that connection had closed!"
"It did, for a while," muttered Harry; his scar was still painful, which made it hard to concentrate. "I - I think it’s started opening again whenever he loses control, that’s how it used to -"
"But then you’ve got to close your mind!" said Hermione shrilly. "Harry, Dumledore didn’t want you to use that connection, he wanted you to shut it down, that’s why you were supposed to use Occlumency! Otherwise Voldemort can plant false images in your mind, rememer -"
"Yeah, I do rememer, thanks," said Harry through gritted teeth; he did not need Hermione to tell him that Voldemort had once used this selfsame connection etween them to lead him into a trap, nor that it had resulted in Sirius’s death. He wished that he had not told them what he had seen and felt; it made Voldemort more threatening, as though he were pressing against the window of the room, and still the pain in his scar was uilding and he fought it: It was like resisting the urge to e sick.
He turned his ack on Ron and Hermione, pretending to examine the old tapestry of the Black family tree on the wall. Then Hermione shrieked: Harry drew his wand again and spun around to see a silver Patronus soar through the drawing room window and land upon the floor in front of them, where it solidified into the weasel that spoke with the voice of Ron’s father.
"Family safe, do not reply, we are eing watched."
The Patronus dissolved into nothingness. Ron let out a noise etween a whimper and a groan and dropped onto the sofa: Hermione joined him, gripping his arm.
"They’re all right, they’re all right!" she whispered, and Ron half laughed and hugged her.
"Harry," he said over Hermione’s shoulder, "I -"
"It’s not a prolem," said Harry, sickened y the pain in his head. "It’s your family, ‘course you were worried. I’d feel the same way." He thought of Ginny. "I do feel the same way."
The pain in his scar was reaching a peak, urning as it had ack in the garden of the Burrow. Faintly he heard Hermione say "I don’t want to e on my own. Could we use the sleeping ags I’ve rought and camp in here tonight?"
He heard Ron agree. He could not fight the pain much longer. He had to succum.
"Bathroom," he muttered, and he left the room as fast as he could without running.
He arely made it: Bolting the door ehind him with tremling hands, he grasped his pounding head and fell to the floor, then in an explosion of agony, he felt the rage that did not elong to him possess his soul, saw a long room lit only y firelight, and the giant lond Death Eater on the floor, screaming and writhing, and a slighter figure standing over him, wand outstretched, while Harry spoke in a high, cold, merciless voice.
"More, Rowle, or shall we end it and feed you to Nagini? Lord Voldemort is not sure that he will forgive this time. . . . You called me ack for this, to tell me that Harry Potter has escaped again? Draco, give Rowle another taste of our displeasure. . . . Do it, or feel my wrath yourself!"
A log fell in the fire: Flames reared, their light darting across a terrified, pointed white face - with a sense of emerging from deep water, Harry drew heaving reaths and opened his eyes.
He was spread-eagled on the cold lack marle floor, his nose inches from one of the silver serpent tails that supported the large athtu. He sat up. Malfoy’s gaunt, petrified face seemed urned on the inside of his eyes. Harry felt sickened y what he had seen, y the use to which Draco was now eing put y Voldemort.
There was a sharp rap on the door, and Harry jumped as Hermione’s voice rang out.
"Harry, do you want your toothrush? I’ve got it here."
"Yeah, great, thanks," he said, fighting to keep his voice casual as he stood up to let her in.
Chapter Ten
Kreacher’s Tale
Harry woke early next morning, wrapped in a sleeping ag on the drawing room floor. A chink of sky was visile etween the heavy curtains. It was the cool, clear lue of watered ink, somewhere etween night and dawn, and everything was quiet except for Ron and Hermione’s slow, deep reathing. Harry glanced over at the dark shapes they made on the floor eside him. Ron had had a fit of gallantry and insisted that Hermione sleep on the cushions from the sofa, so that her silhouette was raised aove his. Her arm curved to the floor, her fingers inches from Ron’s. Harry wondered whether they had fallen asleep holding hands. The idea made him feel strangely lonely.
He looked up at the shadowy ceiling, the coweed chandelier. Less than twenty-four house ago, he had een standing in the sunlight at the entrance to the marquee, waiting to show in wedding guests. It seemed a lifetime away. What was going to happen now? He lay on the floor and he thought of the Horcruxes, of the daunting complex mission Dumledore had left him... Dumledore...
The grief that had possessed him since Dumledore’s death felt different now. The accusations he had heard from Muriel at the wedding seemed to have nested in his rain like diseased things, infecting his memories of the wizard he had idolized. Could Dumledore have let such things happen? Had he een like Dudley, content to watch neglect and ause as long as it did not affect him? Could he have turned his ack on a sister who was eing imprisoned and hidden?
Harry thought of Godric’s Hollow, of graves Dumledore had never mentioned there; he thought of mysterious ojects left without explanation in Dumledore’s will, and resentment swelled in the darkness. Why hadn’t Dumledore told him? Why hadn’t he explained? Had Dumledore actually cared aout Harry at all? Or had Harry een nothing more than a tool to e polished and honed, ut not trusted, never confided in?
Harry could not stand lying there with nothing ut itter thoughts for company. Desperate for something to do, for distraction, he slipped out of his sleeping ad, picked up his wand, and crept out of the room. On the landing he whispered, "Lumos," and started to clim the stairs y wandlight.
On the second landing was the edroom in which he and Ron had slept last time they had een here; he glanced into it. The wardroe doors stood open and the edclothes had een ripped ack. Harry rememered the overturned troll leg downstairs. Someody had searched the house since the Order had left. Snape? Or perhaps Mundungus, who had pilfered plenty from this house oth efore and after Sirius died? Harry’s gaze wandered to the portrait that sometimes contained Phineas Nigellus Black, Sirius’s great-great grandfather, ut it was empty, showing nothing ut a stretch of muddy ackdrop. Phineas Nigellus was evidently spending the night in the headmaster’s study at Hogwarts.
Harry continued up the stairs until he reached the topmost landing where there were only two doors. The one facing him ore a nameplate reading Sirius. Harry had never entered his godfather’s edroom efore. He pushed open the door, holding his wand high to cast light as widely as possile. The room was spacious and must once have een handsome. There was a large ed with a carved wooden headoard, a tall window oscured y long velvet curtains and a chandelier thickly coated in dust with candle scrus still resting in its sockets, solid wax anging in frostlike drips. A fine film of dust covered the pictures on the walls and the ed’s headoard; a spiders we stretched etween the chandelier and the top of the large wooden wardroe, and as Harry moved deeper into the room, he head a scurrying of distured mice.
The teenage Sirius had plastered the walls with so many posters and pictures that little of the wall’s silvery-gray silk was visile. Harry could only assume that Sirius’s parents had een unale to remove the Permanent Sticking Charm that kept them on the wall ecause he was sure they would not have appreciated their eldest son’s taste in decoration. Sirius seemed to have long gone out of his way to annoy his parents. There were several large Gryffindor anners, faded scarlet and gold just to underline his difference from all the rest of the Slytherin family. There were many pictures of Muggle motorcycles, and also (Harry had to admire Sirius’s nerve) several posters of ikini-clad Muggle girls. Harry could tell that they were Muggles ecause they remained quite stationary within their pictures, faded smiles and glazed eyes frozen on the paper. This was in contrast the only Wizarding photograph on the walls which was a picture of four Hogwarts students standing arm in arm, laughing at the camera.
With a leap of pleasure, Harry recognized his father, his untidy lack hair stuck up at the ack like Harry’s, and he too wore glasses. Beside him was Sirius, carelessly handsome, his slightly arrogant face so much younger and happier than Harry had ever seen it alive. To Sirius’s right stood Pettigrew, more than a head shorter, plump and watery-eyed, flushed with pleasure at his inclusion in this coolest of gangs, with the much-admired reels that James and Sirius had een. On James’s left was Lupin, even then a little shay-looking, ut he had the same air of delighted surprise at finding himself liked and included or was it simply ecause Harry knew how it had een, that he saw these things in the picture? He tried to take it from the wall; it was his now, after all, Sirius had left him everything, ut it would not udge. Sirius had taken no chances in preventing his parents from redecorating his room.
Harry looked around at the floor. The sky outside was growing rightest. A shaft of light revealed its of paper, ooks, and small ojects scattered over the carpet. Evidently Sirius’s edroom had een reached too, although its contents seemed to have een judged mostly, if not entirely, worthless. A few of the ooks had een shaken roughly enough to part company with the covers and sundry pages littered the floor.
Harry ent down, picked up a few of the pieces of paper, and examined them. He recognized one as a part of an old edition of A History of Magic, y Bathilda Bagshot, and another as elonging to a motorcycle maintenance manual. The third was handwritten and crumpled. He smoothed it out.
Dear Padfoot,
Thank you, thank you, for Harry’s irthday present! It was his favorite y far. One year old and already zooming along on a toy roomstick, he looked so pleased with himself. I’m enclosing a picture so you can see. You know it only rises aout two feet off the ground ut he nearly killed the cat and he smashed a horrile vase Petunia sent me for Christmas (no complaints there). Of course James thought it was so funny, says he’s going to e a great Quidditch player ut we’ve had to pack away all the ornaments and make sure we don’t take our eyes off him when he gets going.
We had a very quiet irthday tea, just us and old Bathilda who has always een sweet to us and who dotes on Garry. We were so sorry you couldn’t come, ut the Order’s got to come first, and Harry’s not old enough to know it’s his irthday anyway! James is getting a it frustrated shut up here, he tries not to show it ut I can tell - also Dumledore’s still got his Invisiility Cloak, so no chance of little excursions. If you could visit, it would cheer him up so much. Wormy was here last weekend. I thought he seemed down, ut that was proaly the next aout the McKinnons; I cried all evening when I heard.
Bathilda drops in most days, she’s a fascinating old thing with the most amazing stories aout Dumledore. I’m not sure he’d e pleased if he knew! I don’t know how much to elieve, actually ecause it seems incredile that Dumledore
Harry’s extremities seemed to have gone num. He stood quite still, holding the miraculous paper in his nerveless fingers while inside him a kind of quiet eruptions sent joy and grief thundering its equal measure through his veins. Lurching to the ed, he sat down.
He read the letter again, ut could not take in any more meaning than he had done the first time, and was reduced to staring at the handwriting itself. She had made her "g"s the same way he did. He searched through the letter for every one of them, and each felt like a friendly little wave glimpsed from ehind a veil. The letter was an incredile treasure, proof that Lily Potter had lived, really lived, that her warm hand had once moved across this parchment, tracing ink into these letters, these words, words aout him, Harry, her son.
Impatiently rushing away the wetness in his eyes, he reread the letter, this time concentrating on the meaning. It was like listening to a half-rememered voice.
They had a cat... perhaps it had perished, like his parents at Godric’s Hollow... or else fled when there was noody left to feed it... Sirius had ought him his first roomstick... His parents had known Bathilda Bagshot; had Dumledore introduced them? Dumledore’s still got his Invisiility Cloak... there was something funny there...
Harry paused, pondering his mother’s words. Why had Dumledore taken James’s Invisiility Cloak? Harry distinctly rememered his headmaster telling him years efore, "I don’t need a cloak to ecome invisile" Perhaps some less gifted Order
memer had needed its assistance, and Dumledore had acted as a carrier? Harry passed on...
Wormy was here... Pettigrew, the traitor, had seemed "down" had he? Was he aware that he was seeing James and Lily alive for the last time?
And finally Bathilda again, who told incredile stories aout Dumledore. It seems incredile that Dumledore ---
That Dumledore what? But there were any numer of things that would seem incredile aout Dumledore; that he had once received ottom marks in a Transfiguration test, for instance or had taken up goat charming like Aerforth...
Harry got to his feet and scanned the floor: Perhaps the rest of the letter was here somewhere. He seized papers, treating them in his eagerness, with as little consideration as the original searcher, he pulled open drawers, shook out ooks, stood on a chair to run his hand over the top of the wardroe, and crawled under the ed and armchair.
At last, lying facedown on the floor, he spotted what looked like a torn piece of paper under the chest of drawers. When he pulled it out, it proved to e most of the photograph that Lily had descried in her letter. A lack-haired ay was zooming in and out of the picture on a tiny room, roaring with laughter, and a pair of legs that must have elonged to James was chasing after him. Harry tucked the photograph into his pocket with Lily’s letter and continued to look for the second sheet.
After another quarter of an hour, however he was forced to conclude that the rest of his mother’s letter was gone. Had it simply een lost in the sixteen years that had elapsed since it had een written, or had it een taken y whoever had searched the room? Harry read the first sheet again, this time looking for clues as to what might have made the second sheet valuale. His toy roomstick could hardly e considered interesting to the Death Eaters... The only potentially useful thing he could see her was possile information on Dumledore. It seems incredile that Dumledore - what?
"Harry? Harry? Harry!"
"I’m here!" he called, "What’s happened?"
There was a clatter of footsteps outside the door, and Hermione urst inside.
"We woke up and didn’t know where you were!" she said reathlessly. She turned and shouted over her shoulder, "Ron! I’ve found him"
Ron’s annoyed voice echoed distantly from several floors elow.
"Good! Tell him from me he’s a git!"
"Harry don’t just disappear, please, we were terrified! Why did you come up here anyway?" She gazed around the ransacked room. "What have you een doing?"
"Look what I’ve just found"
He held out his mother’s letter. Hermione took it out and read it while Harry watched her. When she reached the end of the page she looked up at him.
"Oh Harry..." "And there’s this too"
He handed her the torn photograph, and Hermione smiled at the ay zooming in and out of sight on the toy room.
"I’ve een looking for the rest of the letter," Harry said, "ut it’s not here."
Hermione glanced around.
"Did you make all this mess, or was some of it done when you got here?"
"Someone had searched efore me," said Harry.
"I thought so. Every room I looked into on the way up had een distured. What were they after, do you think?"
"Information on the Order, if it was Snape."
"But you’d think he’d already have all he needed. I mean was in the Order, wasn’t he?"
"Well then," said Harry, keen to discuss his theory, "what aout information on Dumledore? The second page of the letter, for instance. You know this Bathilda my mum mentions, you know who she is?"
"Who?"
"Bathilda Bagshot, the author of -"
"A History of Magic," said Hermione, looking interested. "So your parents knew her? She was an incredile magic historian."
"And she’s still alive," said Harry, "and she lives in Godric’s Hollow. Ron’s Auntie Muriel was talking aout her at the wedding. She knew Dumledore’s family too. Be pretty interesting to talk to, wouldn’t she?" There was a little too much understanding in the smile Hermione gave him for Harry’s liking. He took ack the letter and the photograph and tucked them inside the pouch around his neck, so as not to have to look at her and give himself away. "I understand why you’d love to talk to her aout your mum and dad, and Dumledore too," said Hermione. "But that wouldn’t really help us in our search for the Horcruxes, would it?" Harry did not answer, and she rushed on, "Harry, I know you really want to go to Godric’s Hollow, ut I’m scared. I’m scared at how easily those Death Eaters found us yesterday. It just makes me feel more than ever that we ought to avoid the place where your parents are uried, I’m sure they’d e expecting you to visit it."
"It’s not just that," Harry said, still avoiding looking at her, "Muriel said stuff aout Dumledore at the wedding. I want to know the truth..."
He told Hermione everything that Muriel had told him. When he had finished, Hermione said, "Of course, I can see why that’s upset you, Harry -"
"I’m not upset," he lied, "I’d just like to know whether or not it’s true or -"
"Harry do you really think you’ll get the truth from a malicious old woman like Muriel, or from Rita Skeeter? How can you elieve them? You knew Dumledore!"
"I thought I did," he muttered.
"But you know how much truth there was in everything Rita wrote aout you! Doge is right, how can you let these people tarnish your memories of Dumledore?"
He looked away, trying not to etray the resentment he felt. There it was again: Choose what to elieve. He wanted the truth. Why was everyody so determined that he should not get it?
"Shall we go down to the kitchen?" Hermione suggested after a little pause. "Find something for reakfast?"
He agreed, ut grudgingly, and followed her out onto the landing and past the second door that led off it. There were deep scratch marks in the paintwork elow a small sign that he had not noticed in the dark. He passed at the top of the stairs to read it. It was a pompous little sign, neatly lettered y hand the sort of thing that Percy Weasley might have stuck on his edroom door.
Do Not Enter
Without the Express Permission of
Regulus Arcturus Black
Excitement trickled through Harry, ut he was not immediately sure why. He read the sign again. Hermione was already a flight of stairs elow him.
"Hermione," he said, and he was surprised that his voice was so calm. "Come ack up here."
"What’s the matter?"
"R.A.B. I think I’ve found him."
There was a gasp, and then Hermione ran ack up the stairs.
"In your mum’s letter? But I didn’t see -"
Harry shook his head, pointing at Regulus’s sign. She read it, then clutched Harry’s arm so tightly that he winced.
"Sirius’s rother?" she whispered.
"He was a Death Eater," said Harry. "Sirius told me aout him, he joined up when he was really young and then got cold feet and tried to leave - so they killed him."
"That fits!" gasped Hermione. "If he was a Death Eater he had access to Voldemort, and if he ecame disenchanted, then he would have wanted to ring Voldemort down!"
She released Harry, leaned over the anister, and screamed, "Ron! RON! Get up here, quick!"
Ron appeared, panting, a minute later, his wand ready in his hand.
"What’s up? If it’s massive spiders again I want reakfast efore I -"
He frowned at the sign on Regulus’s door, in which Hermione was silently pointing.
"What? That was Sirius’s rother, wasn’t it? Regulus Arcturus ... Regulus ... R.A.B.! The locket - you don’t reckon -- ?"
"Let’s find out," said Harry. He pushed the door: It was locked. Hermione pointed her wand at the handle and said, "Alohamora." There was a click, and the door swung open.
They moved over the threshold together, gazing around. Regulus’s edroom was slightly smaller than Sirius’s, though it had the same sense of former grandeur. Whereas Sirius had sought to advertise his diffidence from the rest of the family, Regulus had striven to emphasize the opposite. The Slytherin colors of emerald and silver were everywhere, draping the ed, the walls, and the windows. The Black family crest was painstakingly painted over the ed, along with its motto, TOUJOURS PUR. Beneath this was a collection of yellow newspaper cuttings, all stuck together to make a ragged collage. Hermione crossed the room to examine them.
"They’re all aout Voldemort," she said. "Regulus seems to have een a fan for a few years efore he joined the Death Eaters ..."
A little puff of dust rose from the edcovers as she sat down to read the clippings. Harry, meanwhile, had noticed another photograph: a Hogwarts Quidditch team was smiling and waving out of the frame. He moved closer and saw the snakes emlazoned on their chests: Slytherins. Regulus was instantly recognizale as the oy sitting in the middle of the front row: He had the same dark hair and slightly haughty look of his rother, though he was smaller, slighter, and rather less handsome than Sirius had een.
"He played Seeker," said Harry.
"What?" said Hermione vaguely; she was still immersed in Voldemort’s press clippings.
"He’s sitting in the middle of the front row, that’s where the Seeker ... Never mind," said Harry, realizing that noody was listening. Ron was on his hands and knees, searching under the wardroe. Harry looked around the room for likely hiding places and approached the desk. Yet again, someody had searched efore them. The drawers’ contents had een turned over recently, the dust distured, ut there was nothing of value there: old quills, out-of-date textooks that ore evidence of eing roughly handled, a recently smashed ink ottle, its sticky residue covering the contents of the drawer.
"There’s an easier way," said Hermione, as Harry wiped his inky fingers on his jeans. She raised her wand and said, "Accio Locket!"
Nothing happened. Ron, who had een searching the folds of the faded curtains, looked disappointed.
"Is that it, then? It’s not here?"
"Oh, it could still e here, ut under counter-enchantments," said Hermione. "Charms to prevent it from eing summoned magically, you know."
"Like Voldemort put on the stone asin in the cave," said Harry, rememering how he had een unale to Summon the fake locket.
"How are we supposed to find it then?" asked Ron.
"We search manually," said Hermione.
"That’s a good idea," said Ron, rolling his eyes, and he resumed his examination of the curtains.
They comed every inch of the room for more than an hour, ut were forced, finally, to conclude that the locket was not there.
The sun had risen now; its light dazzled them even through the grimy landing windows.
"It could e somewhere else in the house, though," said Hermione in a rallying tone as they walked ack downstairs. As Harry and Ron had ecome more discouraged, she seemed to have ecome more determined. "Whether he’d manage to destroy it or not, he’d want to keep it hidden from Voldemort, wouldn’t he? Rememer all those awful things we had to get rid of when we were here last time? That clock that shot olts at everyone and those old roes that tried to strangle Ron; Regulus might have put them there to protect the locket’s hiding place, even though we didn’t realize it at ... at ... "
Harry and Ron looked at her. She was standing with one foot in midair, with the dumstruck look of one who had just een Oliviated: her eyes had even drifted out of focus.
"... at the time," she finished in a whisper.
"Something wrong?" asked Ron.
"There was a locket."
"What?" said Harry and Ron together.
"In the cainet in the drawing room. Noody could open it. And we ... we ... "
Harry felt as though a rick had slid down through his chest into his stomach. He rememered. He had even handled the thing as they passed it around, each trying in turn to pry it open. It had een tossed into a sack of ruish, along with the snuffox of Wartcap powder and the music ox that had made everyone sleepy ..."
"Kreacher nicked loads of things ack from us," said Harry. It was the only chance, the only slender hope left to them, and he was going to cling to it until forced to let go. "He had a whole stash of stuff in his cupoard in the kitchen. C’mon."
He ran down the stairs taking two steps at a time, the other two thundering along in his wake. They made so much noise that they woke the portrait of Sirius’s mother as they passed through the hall.
"Filth! Mudloods! Scum!" she screamed after them as they dashed down into the asement kitchen and slammed the door ehind them. Harry ran the length of the room, skidded to a halt at the door of Kreacher’s cupoard, and wrenched it open. There was the nest of dirty old lankets in which the house-elf had once slept, ut they were not longer glittering with the trinkets Kreacher had salvaged. The only thing there was an old copy of Nature’s Noility: A Wizarding Genealogy. Refusing to elieve his eyes, Harry snatched up the lankets and shook them. A dead mouse fell out and rolled dismally across the floor. Ron groaned as he threw himself into a kitchen chair; Hermione closed her eyes.
"It’s not over yet," said Harry, and he raised his voice and called, "Kreacher!"
There was a loud crack and the house elf that Harry had so reluctantly inherited from Sirius appeared out of nowhere in front of the cold and empty fireplace: tiny, half human-sized, his pale skin hanging off him in folds, white hair sprouting copiously from his atlike ears. He was still wearing the filthy rag in which they had first met him, and the contemptuous look he ent upon Harry showed that his attitude to his change of ownership had altered no more than his outfit.
"Master," croaked Kreacher in his ullfrog’s voice, and he owed low; muttering to his knees, "ack in my Mistress’s old house with the lood-traitor Weasley and the Mudlood -"
"I forid you to call anyone ‘lood traitor’ or ‘Mudlood,’" growled Harry. He would have found Kreacher, with his snoutlike nose and loodshot eyes, a distinctively unlovale oject even if the elf had not etrayed Sirius to Voldemort.
"I’ve got a question for you," said Harry, his heart eating rather fast as he looked down at the elf, "and I order you to answer it truthfully. Understand?"
"Yes, Master," said Kreacher, owing low again. Harry saw his lips moving soundlessly, undoutedly framing the insults he was now foridden to utter.
"Two years ago," said Harry, his heart now hammering against his ris, "there was a ig gold locket in the drawing room upstairs. We threw it out. Did you steal it ack?"
There was a moment’s silence, during which Kreacher straightened up to look Harry full in the face. Then he said, "Yes."
"Where is it now?" asked Harry juilantly as Ron and Hermione looked gleeful.
Kreacher closed his eyes as though he could not ear to see their reactions to his next word.
"Gone."
"Gone?" echoed Harry, elation floating out of him, "What do you mean, it’s gone?"
The elf shivered. He swayed.
"Kreacher," said Harry fiercely, "I order you -"
"Mundungus Fletcher," croaked the elf, his eyes still tight shut. "Mundungus Fletcher stole it all; Miss Bella’s and Miss Cissy’s pictures, my Mistress’s gloves, the Order of Merlin, First Class, the golets with the family crest, and - and - "
Kreacher was gulping for air: His hollow chest was rising and falling rapidly, then his eyes flew open and he uttered a loodcurdling scream.
"-and the locket, Master Regulus’s locket. Kreacher did wrong, Kreacher failed in his orders!"
Harry reacted instinctively: As Kreacher lunged for the poker standing in the grate, he launched himself upon the elf, flattening him. Hermione’s scream mingled with Kreacher’s ut Harry ellowed louder than oth of them: "Kreacher, I order you to stay still!"
He felt the elf freeze and released him. Kreacher lay flat on the cold stone floor, tears gushing from his sagging eyes.
"Harry, let him up!" Hermione whispered.
"So he can eat himself up with the poker?" snorted Harry, kneeling eside the elf. "I don’t think so. Right. Kreacher, I want the truth: How do you know Mundungus Fletcher stole the locket?"
"Kreacher saw him!" gasped the elf as tears poured over his snout and into his mouth full of graying teeth. "Kreacher saw him coming out of Kreacher’s cupoard with his hands full of Kreacher’s treasures. Kreacher told the sneak thief to stop, ut Mundungus Fletcher laughed and r-ran ... "
"You called the locket ‘Master Regulus’s,’" said Harry. "Why? Where did it come from? What did Regulus have to do with it? Kreacher, sit up and tell me everything you know aout that locket, and everything Regulus had to do with it!"
The elf sat up, curled into a all, placed his wet face etween his knees, and egan to rock ackward and forward. When he spoke, his voice was muffled ut quite distinct in the silent, echoing kitchen.
"Master Sirius ran away, good riddance, for he was a ad oy and roke my Mistress’s heart with his lawless ways. But Master Regulus had proper order; he knew what was due to the name of Black and the dignity of his pure lood. For years he talked of the Dark Lord, who was going to ring the wizards out of hiding to rule the Muggles and the Muggle-orns ... and when he was sixteen years old, Master Regulus joined the Dark Lord. So proud, so proud, so happy to serve ...
And one day, a year after he joined, Master Regulus came down to the kitchen to see Kreacher. Master Regulus always liked Kreacher. And Master Regulus said ... he said ..."
The old elf rocked faster than ever.
"... he said that the Dark Lord required an elf."
"Voldemort needed an elf?" Harry repeated, looking around at Ron and Hermione, who looked just as puzzled as he did.
"Oh yes," moaned Kreacher. "And Master Regulus had volunteered Kreacher. It was an honor, said Master Regulus, an honor for him and for Kreacher, who must e sure to do whatever the Dark Lord ordered him to do ... and then to c-come home."
Kreacher rocked still faster, his reath coming in sos.
"So Kreacher went to the Dark Lord. The Dark Lord did not tell Kreacher what they were to do, ut took Kreacher with him to a cave eside the sea. And eyond the cave was a cavern, and in the cavern was a great lack lake ... "
The hairs on the ack of Harry’s neck stood up. Kreacher’s croaking voice seemed to come to him from across the dark water. He saw what had happened as clearly as though he had een present.
"... There was a oat ..."
Of course there had een a oat; Harry knew the oat, ghostly green and tiny, ewitched so as to carry one wizard and one victim toward the island in the center. This, then, was how Voldemort had tested the defenses surrounding the Horcrux, y orrowing a disposale creature, a house-elf...
"There was a -asin full of potion on the island. The D-Dark Lord made Kreacher drink it ..."
The elf quaked from head to foot.
"Kreacher drank, and as he drank he saw terrile thing ... Kreacher’s insides urned ... Kreacher cried for Master Regulus to save him, he cried for his Mistress Black, ut the Dark Lord only laughed ... He made Kreacher drink all the potion ... He dropped a locket into the empty asin ... He filled it with more potion."
"And then the Dark Lord sailed away, leaving Kreacher on the island ... "
Harry could see it happening. He watched Voldemort’s white, snakelike face vanishing into darkness, those red eyes fixed pitilessly on the thrashing elf whose death would occur within minutes, whenever he succumed to the desperate thirst that the urning poison caused its victim ... But here, Harry’s imagination could go no further, for he could not see how Kreacher had escaped.
"Kreacher needed water, he crawled to the island’s edge and he drank from the lack lake ... and hands, dead hands, came out of the water and dragged Kreacher under the surface ... "
"How did you get away?" Harry asked, and he was not surprised to hear himself whispering.
Kreacher raised his ugly head and looked Harry with his great, loodshot eyes.
"Master Regulus told Kreacher to come ack," he said.
"I know - ut how did you escape the Inferi?"
Kreacher did not seem to understand.
"Master Regulus told Kreacher to come ack," he repeated.
"I know, ut - "
"Well, it’s ovious, isn’t it, Harry?" said Ron. "He Disapparated!"
"But ... you couldn’t Apparate in and out of that cave," said Harry, "otherwise Dumledore - "
"Elf magic isn’t like wizard’s magic, is it?" said Ron, "I mean, they can Apparate and Disapparate in and out of Hogwarts when we can’t."
There was a silence as Harry digested this. How could Voldemort have made such a mistake? But even as he thought this, Hermione spoke, and her voice was icy.
"Of course, Voldemort would have considered the ways of house-elves far eneath his notice ... It would never have occurred to him that they might have magic that he didn’t."
"The house-elf’s highest law is his Master’s idding," intoned Kreacher. "Kreacher was told to come home, so Kreacher came home ... "
"Well, then, you did what you were told, didn’t you?" said Hermione kindly. "You didn’t disoey orders at all!"
Kreacher shook his head, rocking as fast as ever.
"So what happened when you got ack?" Harry asked. "What did Regulus say when you told him what happened?"
"Master Regulus was very worried, very worried," croaked Kreacher. "Master Regulus told Kreacher to stay hidden and not to leave the house. And then ... it was a little while later ... Master Regulus came to find Kreacher in his cupoard one night, and Master Regulus was strange, not as he usually was, distured in his mind, Kreacher could tell ... and he asked Kreacher to take him to the cave, the cave where Kreacher had gone with the Dark Lord ... "
And so they had set off. Harry could visualize them quite clearly, the frightened old elf and the thin, dark Seeker who had so resemled Sirius ... Kreacher knew how to open the concealed entrance to the underground cavern, knew how to raise the tiny oat: this time it was his eloved Regulus who sailed with him to the island with its asin of poison ...
"And he made you drink the poison?" said Harry, disgusted.
But Kreacher shook his head and wept. Hermione’s hands leapt to her mouth: She seemed to have understood something.
"M-Master Regulus took from his pocket a locket like the one the Dark Lord had," said Kreacher, tears pouring down either side of his snoutlike nose. "And he told Kreacher to take it and, when the asin was empty, to switch the lockets ..."
Kreacher’s sos came in great rasps now; Harry had to concentrate hard to understand him.
"And he order - Kreacher to leave - without him. And he told Kreacher - to go home - and never to tell my Mistress - what he had done - ut to destroy - the first locket. And he drank - all the potion - and Kreacher swapped the lockets - and watched ... as Master Regulus ... was dragged eneath the water ... and ... "
"Oh, Kreacher!" wailed Hermione, who was crying. She dropped to her knees eside the elf and tried to hug him. At once he was on his feet, cringing away from her, quite oviously repulsed.
"The Mudlood touched Kreacher, he will not allow it, what would his Mistress say?"
"I told you not to call her ‘Mudlood’!" snarled Harry, ut the elf was already punishing himself. He fell to the ground and anged his forehead on the floor.
"Stop him - stop him!" Hermione cried. "Oh, don’t you see now how sick it is, the way they’ve got to oey?"
"Kreacher - stop, stop!" shouted Harry.
The elf lay on the floor, panting and shivering, green mucus glistening around his snot, a ruise already looming on his pallid forehead where he had struck himself, his eyes swollen and loodshot and swimming in tears. Harry had never seen anything so pitiful.
"So you rought the locket home," he said relentlessly, for he was determined to know the full story. "And you tried to destroy it?"
"Nothing Kreacher did made any mark upon it," moaned the elf. "Kreacher tried everything, everything he knew, ut nothing, nothing would work ... So many powerful spells upon the casing, Kreacher was sure the way to destroy it was to get inside it, ut it would not open ... Kreacher punished himself, he tried again, he punished himself, he tried again. Kreacher failed to oey orders, Kreacher could not destroy the locket! And his mistress was mad with grief, ecause Master Regulus had disappeared and Kreacher could not tell her what had happened, no, ecause Master Regulus had f-f-foridden him to tell any of the f-f-family what happened in the c-cave ..."
Kreacher egan to so so hard that there were no more coherent words. Tears flowed down Hermione’s cheeks as she watched Kreacher, ut she did not dare touch him again. Even Ron, who was no fan of Kreacher’s, looked trouled. Harry sat ack on his heels and shook his head, trying to clear it.
"I don’t understand you, Kreacher," he said finally. "Voldemort tried to kill you, Regulus died to ring Voldemort down, ut you were still happy to etray Sirius to Voldemort? You were happy to go to Narcissa and Bellatrix, and pass information to Voldemort through them ... "
"Harry, Kreacher doesn’t think like that," said Hermione, wiping her eyes on the ack of her hand. "He’s a slave; house-elves are used to ad, even rutal treatment; what Voldemort did to Kreacher wasn’t that far out of the common way. What do wizard wars mean to an elf like Kreacher? He’s loyal to people who are kind to him, and Mrs. Black must have een, and Regulus certainly was, so he served them willingly and parroted their eliefs. I know what you’re going to say," she went on as Harry egan to protest, "that Regulus changed his mind ... ut he doesn’t seem to have explained that to Kreacher, does he?" And I think I know why. Kreacher and Regulus’s family were all safest if they kept to the old pure-lood line. Regulus was trying to protect them all."
"Sirius - "
"Sirius was horrile to Kreacher, Harry, and it’s no good looking like that, you know it’s true. Kreacher had een alone for such a long time when Sirius came to live here, and he was proaly starving for a it of affection. I’m sure ‘Miss Cissy’ and ‘Miss Bella’ were perfectly lovely to Kreacher when he turned up, so he did them a favor and told them everything they wanted to know. I’ve said all along that wizards would pay for how they treat house-elves. Well, Voldemort did ... and so did Sirius."
Harry had no retort. As he watched Kreacher soing on the floor, he rememered what Dumledore had said to him, mere hours after Sirius’s death: I do not think Sirius ever saw Kreacher as a eing with feelings as acute as a human’s ...
"Kreacher," said Harry after a while, "when you feel up to it, er ... please sit up."
It was several minutes efore Kreacher hiccupped himself into silence. Then he pushed himself into a sitting position again, ruing his knuckles into his eyes like a small child.
"Kreacher, I am going to ask you to do something," said Harry. He glanced at Hermione for assistance. He wanted to give the order kindly, ut at the same time, he could not pretend that it was not an order. However, the change in his tone seemed to have gained her approval: She smiled encouragingly.
"Kreacher, I want you, please, to go and find Mundungus Fletcher. We need to find out where the locket - where Master Regulus’s locket it. It’s really important. We
want to finish the work Master Regulus started, we want to - er - ensure that he didn’t die in vain."
Kreacher dropped his fists and looked up at Harry.
"Find Mundungus Fletcher?" he croaked.
And ring him here, to Grimmauld Place," said Harry. "Do you think you could do that for us?"
As Kreacher nodded and got to his feet, Harry had a sudden inspiration. He pulled out Hagrid’s purse and took out the fake Horcrux, the sustitute locket in which Regulus had placed the note to Voldemort.
"Kreacher, I’d, er, like you to have this," he said, pressing the locket into the elf’s hand. "This elonged to Regulus and I’m sure he’d want you to have it as a token of gratitude for what you-"
"Overkill, mate," said Ron as the elf took one look at the locket, let out a howl of shock and misery, and threw himself ack onto the ground.
It took them nearly half an hour to calm down Kreacher, who was so overcome to e presented with a Black family heirloom for his very own that he was too weak at the knees to stand properly. When finally he was ale to totter a few steps they all accompanied him to his cupoard, watched him tuck up the locket safely in his dirty lankets, and assured him that they would make its protection their first priority while he was away. He then made two low ows to Harry and Ron, and even gave a funny little spasm in Hermione’s direction that might have een an attempt at a respectful salute, efore Disapparating with the usual loud crack.
Chapter Eleven
The Brie
If Kreacher could escape a lake full of Inferi, Harry was confident that the capture of Mundungus would take a few hours at most, and he prowled the house all morning in a state of high anticipation. However, Kreacher did not return that morning or even that afternoon. By nightfall, Harry felt discouraged and anxious, and a supper composed largely of moldy read, upon which Hermione had tried a variety of unsuccessful Transfigurations, did nothing to help.
Kreacher did not return the following day, nor the day after that. However, two cloaked men had appeared in the square outside numer twelve, and they remained there into the night, gazing in the direction of the house that they could not see.
"Death Eaters, for sure," said Ron, as he, Harry, and Hermione watched from the drawing room windows. "Reckon they know we’re in here?"
"I don’t think so," said Hermione, though she looked frightened, "or they’d have sent Snape in after us, wouldn’t they?"
"D’you reckon he’s een in here and has his tongue tied y Moody’s curse?" asked Ron.
"Yes," said Hermione, "otherwise he’d have een ale to tell that lot how to get in, wouldn’t he? But they’re proaly watching to see whether we turn up. They know that Harry owns the house, after all."
"How do they --?" egan Harry.
"Wizarding wills are examined y the Ministry, rememer? They’ll know Sirius left you the place."
The presence of the Death Eaters outside increased the ominous mood inside numer twelve. They had not heard a word form anyone eyond Grimmauld Place since Mr. Weasley’s Patronus, and the strain was starting to tell. Restless and irritale, Ron had developed an annoying hait of playing with the Deluminator in his pocket; This particularly infuriated Hermione, who was whiling away the wait for Kreacher y studying The Tales of Beedle the Bard and did not appreciate the way the lights kept flashing on and off.
"Will you stop it!" she cried on the third evening of Kreacher’s asence, as all the light was sucked from the drawing room yet again.
"Sorry, sorry!" said Ron, clicking the Deluminator and restoring the lights. "I don’t know I’m doing it!"
"Well, can’t you find something useful to occupy yourself?"
"What, like reading kids’ stories?"
"Dumledore left me this ook, Ron -"
"-and he left me the Deluminator, maye I’m supposed to use it!"
Unale to stand the ickering, Harry slipped out of the room unnoticed y either of them. He headed downstairs toward the kitchen, which he kept visiting ecause he was sure that was where Kreacher was most likely to reappear. Halfway down the flight of stairs into the hall, however, he heard a tap on the front door, then metallic clicks and the grinding of the chain.
Every nerve in his ody seemed to tauten: He pulled out his wand, moved into the shadows eside the decapitated elf heads, and waited. The door opened: He saw a glimpse of the lamplit square outside, and a cloaked figure edged into the hall and closed the door ehind it. The intruder took a step forward, and Moody’s voice asked, "Severus Snape?" Then the dust figure rose from the end of the hall and rushed him, raising its dead hand.
"It was not I who killed you, Alus," said a quiet voice.
The jinx roke: The dust-figure exploded again, and it was impossile to make out the newcomer through the dense gray cloud it left ehind.
Harry pointed the wand into the middle of it.
"Don’t move!"
He had forgotten the portrait of Mrs. Black: At the sound of his yell, the curtains hiding her flew open and she egan to scream, "Mudloods and filth dishonoring my house -"
Ron and Hermione came crashing down the stairs ehind Harry, wands pointing, like his, at the unknown man now standing with his arms raised in the hall elow.
"Hold your fire, it’s me, Remus!"
"Oh, thank goodness," said Hermione weakly, pointing her wand at Mrs. Black instead; with a ang, the curtains swished shut again and silence fell. Ron too lowered his wand, ut Harry did not.
"Show yourself!" he called ack.
Lupin moved forward into the lamplight, hands still held high in a gesture of surrender.
"I am Remus John Lupin, werewolf, sometimes known as Moony, one of the four creators of the Marauder’s Map, married to Nymphadora, usually known as Tonks, and I taught you how to produce a Patronus, Harry, which takes the form of a stag."
"Oh, all right," said Harry, lowering his wand, "ut I had to check, didn’t I?"
"Speaking as your ex-Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, I quite agree that you had to check. Ron, Hermione, you shouldn’t e so quick to lower your defenses."
They ran down the stairs towards him. Wrapped in a thick lack traveling cloak, he looked exhausted, ut pleased to see them.
"No sign of Severus, then?" he asked.
"No," said Harry. "What’s going on? Is everyone okay?’
"Yes," said Lupin, "ut we’re all eing watched. There are a couple of Death Eaters in the square outside -"
"We know -"
"I had to Apparate very precisely onto the top step outside the front door to e sure that they would not see me. They can’t know you’re in here or I’m sure they’d have more people out there; they’re staking out everywhere that’s got any connection with you, Harry. Let’s go downstairs, there’s a lot to tell you, and I want to know what happened after you left the Burrow."
They descended into the kitchen, where Hermione pointed her wand at the grate. A fire sprang up instantly: It gave the illusion of coziness to the stark stone walls and glistened off the long wooden tale. Lupin pulled a few uttereers from eneath his traveling cloak and they sat down.
"I’d have een here three days ago ut I needed to shake off the Death Eater tailing me," said Lupin. "So, you came straight here after the wedding?"
"No," said Harry, "only after we ran into a couple of Death Eaters in a café on Tottenham Court Road."
Lupin slopped most of his uttereer down his front.
"What?"
They explained what had happened; when they had finished, Lupin looked aghast.
"But how did they find you so quickly? It’s impossile to track anyone who Apparates, unless you gra hold of them as they disappear."
"And it doesn’t seem likely they were just strolling down Tottenham Court Road at the time, does it?" said Harry.
"We wondered," said Hermione tentatively, "whether Harry could still have the Trace on him?"
"Impossile," said Lupin. Ron looked smug, and Harry felt hugely relieved. "Apart from anything else, they’d know for sure Harry was here if he still had the Trace on him, wouldn’t they? But I can’t see how they could have tracked you to Tottenham Court Road, that’s worrying, really worrying."
He looked distured, ut as far as Harry was concerned, that question could wait.
"Tell us what happened after we left, we haven’t heard a thing since Ron’s dad told us the family was safe."
"Well, Kingsley saved us," said Lupin. "Thanks to his warning most of the wedding guests were ale to Disapparate efore they arrived."
"Were they Death Eaters or Ministry people?" interjected Hermione.
"A mixture; ut to all intents and purposes they’re the same thing now," said Lupin. "There were aout a dozen of them, ut they didn’t know you were there, Harry. Arthur heard a rumor that they tried to torture your whereaouts out of Scrimgeour efore they killed him; if it’s true, he didn’t give you away."
Harry looked at Ron and Hermione; their expressions reflected the mingled shock and gratitude he felt. He had never liked Scrimgeour much, ut if what Lupin said was true, the man’s final act had een to try to protect Harry.
"The Death Eaters searched the Burrow from top to ottom," Lupin went on. "They found the ghoul, ut didn’t want to get too close - and then they interrogated those of us who remained for hours. They were trying to get information on you, Harry, ut of course noody apart from the Order knew that you had een there.
"At the same time that they were smashing up the wedding, more Death Eaters were forcing their way into every Order-connected house in the country. No deaths," he added quickly, forestalling the question, "ut they were rough. They urned down Dedalus Diggle’s house, ut as you know he wasn’t there, and they used the Cruciarus Curse on Tonks’s family. Again, trying to find out where you went after you visited them. They’re all right - shaken, oviously, ut otherwise okay."
"The Death Eaters got through all those protective charms?"
Harry asked, rememering how effective these had een on the night he had crashed in Tonks’s parents’ garden.
"What you’ve got to realize, Harry, is that the Death Eaters have got the full might of the Ministry on their side now," said Lupin. "They’ve got the power to perform rutal spells without fear of identification or arrest. They managed to penetrate every defensive spell we’d cast against them, and once inside, they were completely open aout why they’d come."
"And are they othering to give an excuse for torturing Harry’s whereaouts out of people?" asked Hermione, an edge to her voice.
"Well," Lupin said. He hesitated, then pulled out a folded copy of the Daily Prophet.
"Here," he said, pushing it across the tale to Harry, "you’ll know sooner or later anyway. That’s their pretext for going after you."
Harry smoothed out the paper. A huge photograph of his own face filled the front page. He read the headline over it:
WANTED FOR QUESTIONING ABOUT
THE DEATH OF ALBUS DUMBLEDORE
Ron and Hermione gave roars of outrage, ut Harry said nothing. He pushed the newspaper away; he did not want to read anymore: He knew what it would say. Noody ut those who had een on top of the tower when Dumledore died knew who had really killed him and, as Rita Skeeter had already told the Wizarding world, Harry had een seen running from the place moments after Dumledore had fallen.
"I’m sorry, Harry," Lupin said.
"So Death Eaters have taken over the Daily Prophet too?" asked Hermione furiously.
Lupin nodded.
"But surely people realize what’s going on?"
"The coup has een smooth and virtually silent," said Lupin.
"The official version of Scrimgeour’s murder is that he resigned; he has een replaced y Pius Thicknesse, who is under the Imperius Curse."
"Why didn’t Voldemort declare himself Minister of Magic?" asked Ron.
Lupin laughed.
"He doesn’t need to, Ron. Effectively, he is the Minister, ut why should he sit ehind a desk at the Ministry? His puppet, Thicknesse, is taking care of everyday usiness, leaving Voldemort free to extend his power eyond the Ministry.
"Naturally many people have deduced what has happened: There has een such a dramatic change in Ministry policy in the last few days, and many are whispering that Voldemort must e ehind it. However, that is the point: They whisper. They daren’t confide in each other, not knowing whom to trust; they are scared to speak out, in case their suspicions are true and their families are targeted. Yes, Voldemort is playing a very clever game. Declaring himself might have provoked open reellion: Remaining masked has created confusion, uncertainty, and fear."
"And this dramatic change in Ministry policy," said Harry, "involves warning the Wizarding world against me instead of Voldemort?"
"That’s certainly a part of it," said Lupin, "and it is a masterstroke. Now that Dumledore is dead, you - the Boy Who Lived - were sure to e the symol and rallying point for any resistance to Voldemort. But y suggesting that you had a hand in the old hat’s death, Voldemort has not only set a price upon your head, ut sown dout and fear amongst many who would have defended you.
"Meanwhile, the Ministry has started moving against Muggle-orns."
Lupin pointed at the Daily Prophet.
"Look at page two."
Hermione turned the pages with much the same expression of distaste she had when handling Secrets of the Darkest Art.
"Muggle-orn Register!" she read aloud. "‘The Ministry of Magic is undertaking a survey of so-called "Muggle-orns" the etter to understand how they came to possess magical secrets.
"‘Recent research undertaken y the Department of Mysteries reveals that magic can only e passed from person to person when Wizards reproduce. Where no proven Wizarding ancestry exists, therefore, the so-called Muggle-orn is likely to have otained magical power y theft or force.
"‘The Ministry is determined to root out such usurpers of magical power, and to this end has issued an invitation to every so-called Muggle-orn to present themselves for interview y the newly appointed Muggle-orn Registration Commission.’"
"People won’t let this happen," said Ron.
"It is happening, Ron," said Lupin. "Muggle-orns are eing rounded up as we speak."
"But how are they supposed to have ‘stolen’ magic?" said Ron. "It’s mental, if you could steal magic there wouldn’t e any Squis, would there?"
"I know," said Lupin. "Nevertheless, unless you can prove that you have at least one close Wizarding relative, you are now deemed to have otained your magical power illegally and must suffer the punishment."
Ron glanced at Hermione, then said, "What if pureloods and halfloods swear a Muggle-orn’s part of their family? I’ll tell everyone Hermione’s my cousin -"
Hermione covered Ron’s hand with hers and squeezed it.
"Thank you, Ron, ut I couldn’t let you -"
"You won’t have a choice," said Ron fiercely, gripping her hand ack. "I’ll teach you my family tree so you can answer questions on it."
Hermione gave a shaky laugh.
"Ron, as we’re on the run with Harry Potter, the most wanted person in the country, I don’t think it matters. If I was going ack to school it would e different. What’s Voldemort planning for Hogwarts?" she asked Lupin.
"Attendance is now compulsory for every young witch and wizard," he replied. "That was announced yesterday. It’s a change, ecause it was never oligatory efore. Of course, nearly every witch and wizard in Britain has een educated at Hogwarts, ut their parents had the right to teach them at home or send them aroad if they preferred. This way, Voldemort will have the whole Wizarding population under his eye from a young age. And it’s also another way of weeding out Muggle-orns, ecause students must e given Blood Status - meaning that they have proven to the Ministry that they are of Wizard descent - efore they are allowed to attend."
Harry felt sickened and angry: At this moment, excited eleven-year-olds would e poring over stacks of newly purchased spell-ooks, unaware that they would never see Hogwarts, perhaps never see their families again either.
"It’s . . . it’s . . ." he muttered, struggling to find words that did justice to the horror of his thoughts, ut Lupin said quietly,
"I know."
Lupin hesitated.
I’ll understand if you can’t confirm this, Harry, ut the Order is under the impression that Dumledore left you a mission."
"He did," Harry replied, "and Ron and Hermione are in on it and they’re coming with me."
"Can you confide in me what the mission is?"
Harry looked into the prematurely lined face, framed in thick ut graying hair, and wished that he could return a different answer.
"I can’t, Remus, I’m sorry. If Dumledore didn’t tell you I don’t think I can."
"I thought you’d say that," said Lupin, looking disappointed. "But I might still e of some use to you. You know what I am and what I can do. I could come with you to provide protection. There would e no need to tell me exactly what you were up to."
Harry hesitated. It was a very tempting offer, though how they would e ale to keep their mission secret from Lupin if he were with them all the time he could not imagine.
Hermione, however, looked puzzled.
"But what aout Tonks?" she asked.
"What aout her?" said Lupin.
"Well," said Hermione, frowning, "you’re married! How does she feel aout you going away with us?"
"Tonks will e perfectly safe," said Lupin, "She’ll e at her parents’ house."
There was something strange in Lupin’s tone, it was almost cold. There was also something odd in the idea of Tonks remaining hidden at her parents’ house; she was, after all, a memer of the Order and, as far as Harry knew, was likely to want to e in the thick of the action.
"Remus," said Hermione tentatively, "is everything all right . . . you know . . . etween you and - "
"Everything is fine, thank you," said Lupin pointedly.
Hermione turned pink. There was another pause, an awkward and emarrassed one, and then Lupin said, with an air of forcing himself to admit something unpleasant, "Tonks is going to have a ay."
"Oh, how wonderful!" squealed Hermione.
"Excellent!" said Ron enthusiastically.
"Congratulations," said Harry.
Lupin gave an artificial smile that was more like a grimace, then said, "So . . . do you accept my offer? Will three ecome four? I cannot elieve that Dumledore would have disapproved, he appointed me your Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, after all. And I must tell you that I elieve we are facing magic many of us have never encountered or imagined."
Ron and Hermione oth looked at Harry.
"Just - just to e clear," he said. "You want to leave Tonks at her parents’ house and come away with us?"
"She’ll e perfectly safe there, they’ll look after her," said Lupin. He spoke with a finality ordering on indifference: "Harry, I’m sure James would have wanted me to stick with you."
"Well," said Harry slowly, "I’m not. I’m pretty sure my father would have wanted to know why you aren’t sticking with your own kid, actually."
Lupin’s face drained of color. The temperature in the kitchen might have dropped ten degrees. Ron stared around the room as though he had een idden to memorize it, while Hermione’s eyes swiveled ackward and forward from Harry to Lupin.
"You don’t understand," said Lupin at last.
"Explain, then," said Harry.
Lupin swallowed.
"I - I made a grave mistake in marrying Tonks. I did it against my etter judgment and have regretted it very much every since."
"I see," said Harry, "so you’re just going to dump her and the kid and run off with us?"
Lupin sprang to his feet: His chair toppled over ackward, and he glared at them so fiercely that Harry saw, for the first time ever, she shadow of the wolf upon his human face.
"Don’t you understand what I’ve done to my wife and my unorn child? I should never have married her, I’ve made her an outcast!"
Lupin kicked aside the chair he had overturned.
"You have only ever seen me amongst the Order, or under Dumledore’s protection at Hogwarts! You don’t know how most of the Wizarding world sees creatures like me! When they know of my affliction, they can arely talk to me! Don’t you see what I’ve done?
Even her own family is disgusted y our marriage, what parents want their only daughter to marry a werewolf? And the child - the child - "
Lupin actually seized handfuls of his own hair; he looked quite deranged.
"My kind don’t usually reed! It will e like me, I am convinced of it - how can I forgive myself, when I knowingly risked passing on my own condition to an innocent child? And if, y some miracle, it is not like me, then it will e etter off, a hundred times so, without a father of whom it must always e ashamed!"
"Remus!" whispered Hermione, tears in her eyes. "Don’t say that - how could any child e ashamed of you?"
"Oh, I don’t know, Hermione," said Harry. "I’d e pretty ashamed of him."
Harry did not know where his rage was coming from, ut it had propelled him to his feet too. Lupin looked as though Harry had hit him.
"If the new regime thinks Muggle-orns are ad," Harry said, "what will they do to a half-werewolf whose father’s in the Order? My father died trying to protect my mother and me, and you reckon he’d tell you to aandon your kid to go on an adventure with us?"
"How - how dare you?" said Lupin. "This is not aout a desire for - for danger or personal glory - how dare you suggest such a - "
"I think you’re feeling a it of a daredevil," Harry said, "You fancy stepping into Sirius’s shoes -"
"Harry, no!" Hermione egged him, ut he continued to glare into Lupin’s livid face.
"I’d never have elieved this," Harry said. "The man who taught me to fight dementors - a coward."
Lupin drew his wand so fast that Harry had arely reached for his own; there was a loud ang and he felt himself flying ackward as if punched; as he slammed into the kitchen wall and slid to the floor, he glimpsed the tail of Lupin’s cloak disappearing around the door.
"Remus, Remus, come ack!" Hermione cried, ut Lupin did not respond. A moment later they heard the front door slam.
"Harry!" wailed Hermione. "How could you?"
"It was easy," said Harry. He stood up, he could feel a lump swelling where his head had hit the wall. He was still so full of anger he was shaking.
"Don’t look at me like that!" he snapped at Hermione.
"Don’t you start on her!" snarled Ron.
"No - no - we mustn’t fight!" said Hermione, launching herself etween them.
"You shouldn’t have said that stuff to Lupin," Ron told Harry.
"He had it coming to him," said Harry. Broken images were racing each other through his mind: Sirius falling through the veil; Dumledore suspended, roken, in midair; a flash of green light and his mother’s voice, egging for mercy . . .
"Parents," said Harry, "shouldn’t leave their kids unless - unless they’ve got to."
"Harry -" said Hermione, stretching out a consoling hand, ut he shrugged it off and walked away, his eyes on the fire Hermione had conjured. He had once spoken to Lupin out of that fireplace, seeking reassurance aout James, and Lupin had consoled him. Now Lupin’s tortured white face seemed to swim in the air efore him. He felt a
sickening surge of remorse. Neither Ron nor Hermione spoke, ut Harry felt sure that they were looking at each other ehind his ack, communicating silently.
He turned around and caught them turning hurriedly away form each other.
"I know I shouldn’t have called him a coward."
"No, you shouldn’t," said Ron at once.
"But he’s acting like one."
"All the same . . ." said Hermione.
"I know," said Harry. "But if it makes him go ack to Tonks, it’ll e worth it, won’t it?"
He could not keep the plea out of his voice. Hermione looked sympathetic, Ron uncertain. Harry looked down at his feet, thinking of his father. Would James have acked Harry in what he had said to Lupin, or would he have een angry at how his son had treated his old friend?
The silent kitchen seemed to hum with the shock of the recent scene and with Ron and Hermione’s unspoken reproaches. The Daily Prophet Lupin had rought was still lying on the tale, Harry’s own face staring up at the ceiling from the front page. He walked over to it and sat down, opened the paper at random, and pretended to read. He could not take in the words; his mind was still too full of the encounter with Lupin. He was sure that Ron and Hermione had resumed their silent communications on the other side of the Prophet. He turned a page loudly, and Dumledore’s name leapt out at him. It was a moment or two efore he took in the meaning of the photograph, which showed a family group. Beneath the photograph were the words: The Dumledore family, left to right: Alus; Percival, holding neworn Ariana; Kendra, and Aerforth.
His attention caught, Harry examined the picture more carefully. Dumledore’s father, Percival, was a good-looking man with eyes that seemed to twinkle even in this faded old photograph. The ay, Ariana, was a little longer than a loaf of read and no more distinctive-looking. The mother, Kendra, had jet lack hair pulled into a high un. Her face had a carved quality aout it. Harry thought of photos of Native Americans he’d seen as he studied her dark eyes, high cheekones, and straight nose, formally composed aove a high-necked silk gown. Alus and Aerforth wore matching lacy collared jackets and had identical, shoulder-length hairstyles. Alus looked several years older, ut otherwise the two oys looked very alike, for this was efore Alus’s nose had een roken and efore he started wearing glasses.
The family looked quite happy and normal, smiling serenely up out of the newspaper. Bay Ariana’s arm waved vaguely out of her shawl. Harry looked aove the picture and saw the headline:
EXCLUSIVE EXTRACT FROM UPCOMING
BIOGRAPHY OF ALBUS DUMBLEDORE
y Rita Skeeter
Thinking it could hardly make him feel any worse than he already did, Harry egan to read:
Proud and haughty, Kendra Dumledore could not ear to remain in Mould-on-the-Wold after her husand Percival’s well-pulicized arrest and imprisonment in Azkaan. She therefore decided to uproot the family and relocate to Godric’s Hollow, the village that was later to gain fame as the scene of Harry Potter’s strange escape from You-Know-Who.
Like Mould-on-the-Wold, Godric’s Hollow was home to a numer of Wizarding families, ut as Kendra knew none of them, she would e spared the curiosity aout her husand’s crime she had faced in her former village. By repeatedly reuffing the friendly advances of her new Wizarding neighors, she soon ensured that her family was left well alone.
"Slammed the door in my face when I went around to welcome her with a atch of homemade Cauldron Cakes," says Bathilda Bagshot. "The first year they were there I only ever saw the two oys. Wouldn’t have known there was a daughter if I hadn’t een picking Plangentines y moonlight the winter after they moved in, and saw Kendra leading Ariana out into the ack garden. Walked her round the lawn once, keeping a firm grip on her, then took her ack inside. Didn’t know what to make of it."
It seems that Kendra thought the move to Godric’s Hollow was the perfect opportunity to hide Ariana once and for all, something she had proaly een planning for years. The timing was significant. Ariana was arely seven years old when she vanished from sight, and seven is the age y which most experts agree that magic will have revealed itself, if present. Noody now alive rememers Ariana ever demonstrating even the slightest sign of magical aility. It seems clear, therefore, that Kendra made a decision to hide her daughter’s existence rather than suffer the shame of admitting that she had produced a Squi. Moving away from the friends and neighors who knew Ariana would, of course, make imprisoning her all the easier. The tiny numer of people who henceforth knew of Ariana’s existence could e counted upon to keep the secret, including her two rothers, who had deflected awkward questions with the answer their mother had taught them. "My sister is too frail for school."
Next week: Alus Dumledore at Hogwarts - the Prizes and the Pretense.
Harry had een wrong: What he had read had indeed made him feel worse. He looked ack at the photograph of the apparently happy family. Was it true? How could he find out? He wanted to go to Godric’s Hollow, even if Bathilda was in no fit state to talk to him: he wanted to visit the place where he and Dumledore had oth lost loved ones. He was in the process of lowering the newspaper, to ask Ron’s and Hermione’s opinions, when a deafening crack echoed around the kitchen.
For the first time in three days Harry had forgotten all aout Kreacher. His immediate thought was that Lupin had urst ack into the room, and for a split second, he did not take in the mass of struggling lims that had appeared out of thin air right eside his chair. He hurried to his feet as Kreacher disentangled himself and, owing low to Harry, croaked, "Kreacher has returned with the thief Mundungus Fletcher, Master."
Mundungus scramled up and pulled out his wand; Hermione, however, was too quick for him.
"Expelliarmus!"
Mundungus’s wand soared into the air, and Hermione caught it. Wild-eyed, Mundungus dived for the stairs. Ron rugy-tackled him and Mundungus hit the stone floor with a muffled crunch.
"What?" he ellowed, writhing in his attempts to free himself from Ron’s grip. "Wha’ve I done? Setting a leedin’ ‘house-elf on me, what are you playing at, wha’ve I done, lemme go, lemme go, of - "
"You’re not in much of a position to make threats," said Harry. He threw aside the newspaper, crossed the kitchen in a few strides, and dropped to his knees eside Mundungus, who stopped struggling and looked terrified. Ron got up, panting, and watched as Harry pointed his wand delierately at Mundungus’s nose. Mundungus stank of stale sweat and toacco smoke. His hair was matted and his roes stained.
"Kreacher apologizes for the delay in ringing the thief, Master," croaked the elf. "Fletcher knows how to avoid capture, has many hidey-holes and accomplices. Nevertheless, Kreacher cornered the thief in the end."
"You’ve done really well, Kreacher," said Harry, and the elf owed low.
"Right, we’ve got a few questions for you," Harry told Mundungus, who shouted at once.
"I panicked, okay? I never wanted to come along, no offense, mate, ut I never volunteered to die for you, an’ that was leedin’ You-Know-Who come flying at me, anyone woulda got outta there. I said all along I didn’t wanna do it -"
"For your information, none of the rest of us Disapparated," said Hermione.
"Well, you’re a unch of leedin’ ‘eroes then, aren’t you, ut I never pretended I was up for killing meself -"
"We’re not interested in why you ran out on Mad-Eye," said Harry, moving his wand a little closer to Mundungus’s aggy, loodshot eyes. "We already knew you were an unreliale it of scum."
"Well then, why the ‘ell am I eing ‘unted down y ‘ouse-elves? Or is this aout them golets again? I ain’t got none of ‘em left, or you could ‘ave ‘em -"
"It’s not aout the golets either, although you’re getting warmer," said Harry. "Shut up and listen."
It felt wonderful to have something to do, someone of whom he could demand some small portion of truth. Harry’s wand was now so close to the ridge of Mundungus’s nose that Mundungus had gone cross-eyed trying to keep it in view.
"When you cleaned out this house of anything valuale," Harry egan, ut Mundungus interrupted him again.
"Sirius never cared aout any of the junk -"
There was the sound of pattering fee, a laze of shining copper, an echoing clang, and a shriek of agony; Kreacher had taken a run at Mundungus and hit him over the head with a saucepan.
"Call ‘im off, call ‘im off, ‘e should e locked up!" screamed Mundungus, cowering as Kreacher raised the heavy-ottomed pan again.
"Kreacher, no!" shouted Harry.
Kreacher’s thin arms tremled with the weight of the pan, still held aloft.
"Perhaps just one more, Master Harry, for luck?"
Ron laughed.
"We need him conscious, Kreacher, ut if he needs persuading, you can do the honors," said Harry.
"Thank you very much, Master," said Kreacher with a ow, and he retreated a short distance, his great pale eyes still fixed upon Mundungus with loathing.
"When you stripped this house of all the valuales you could find," Harry egan again, "you took a unch of stuff from the kitchen cupoard. There was a locket there." Harry’s mouth was suddenly dry: He could sense Ron and Hermione’s tension and excitement too. "What did you do with it?"
"Why?" asked Mundungus. "Is it valuale?"
"You’ve still got it!" cried Hermione.
"No, he hasn’t," said Ron shrewdly. "He’s wondering whether he should have asked more money for it."
"More?" said Mundungus. "That wouldn’t have een effing difficult . . .leedin’ gave it away, di’n’ I? No choice."
"What do you mean?"
"I was selling in Diagon Alley and she come up to me and asks if I’ve got a license for trading in magical artifacts. Bleedin’ snoop. She was gonna fine me, ut she took a fancy to the locket an’ told me she’d take it and let me off that time, and to fink meself lucky."
"Who was this woman?" asked Harry.
"I dunno, some Ministry hag."
Mundungus considered for a moment, row wrinkled.
"Little woman. Bow on top of ‘er head."
He frowned and then added, "Looked like a toad."
Harry dropped his wand: It hit Mundungus on the nose and shot red sparks into his eyerows, which ignited.
"Aquamenti!" screamed Hermione, and a jet of water streamed from her wand, engulfing a spluttering and choking Mundungus.
Harry looked up and saw his own shock reflected in Ron’s and Hermione’s faces. The scars on the ack of his right hand seemed to e tingling again.
Chapter Twelve
Magic is Might
As August wore on, the square of unkempt grass in the middle of Grimmauld Place shriveled in the sun until it was rittle and rown. The inhaitants of numer twelve were never seen y anyone in the surrounding houses, and nor was numer twelve itself. The muggles who lived in Grimmauld Place had long since accepted the amusing mistake in the numering that had caused numer eleven to sit eside numer thirteen.
And yet the square was now attracting a trickle of visitors who seemed to find the anomaly most intriguing. Barely a day passed without one or two people arriving in Grimmauld Place with no other purpose, or so it seemed, than to lean against the railings facing numers eleven and thirteen, watching the join etween the two houses. The lurkers were never the same two days running, although they all seemed to share a dislike
for normal clothing. Most of the Londoners who passed them were used to eccentric dressers and took little notice, though occasionally one of them might glance ack, wondering why anyone would wear cloaks in this heat.
The watchers seemed to e gleaning little satisfaction from their vigil. Occasionally one of them started forward excitedly, as if they had seen something interesting at last, only to fall ack looking disappointed.
On the first day of Septemer there were more people lurking in the square than ever efore. Half a dozen men in long cloaks stood silent and watchful, gazing as ever at houses eleven and thirteen, ut the thing for which they were waiting still appeared elusive. As evening drew in, ringing with it an unexpected gust of chilly rain for the first time in weeks, there occurred one of those inexplicale moments when they appeared to have seen something interesting. The man with the twisted face pointed and his closest companion, a podgy, pallid man, started forward, ut a moment later they had relaxed into their previous state of inactivity, looking frustrated and disappointed.
Meanwhile, inside numer twelve, Harry had just entered the hall. He had nearly lost his alance as he Apparated onto the top step just outside the front door, and thought that the Death Eaters might have caught a glimpse of his momentarily exposed elow. Shutting the front door carefully ehind him, he pulled off the Invisiility Cloak, draped it over his arm, and hurried along the gloomy hallway toward the door that led to the asement, a stolen copy of the Daily Prophet clutched in his hand.
The usual low whisper of "Severus Snape" greeted him, the chill wind swept him, and his tongue rolled up for a moment.
"I didn’t kill you," he said, once it had unrolled, then held his reath as the dusty jinx-figure exploded. He waited until he was halfway down the stairs to the kitchen, out of earshot of Mrs. Black and clear of the dust cloud, efore calling, "I’ve got news, and you won’t like it."
The kitchen was almost unrecognizale. Every surface now shone; Copper pots and pans had een urnished to a rosy glow; the wooden taletop gleamed; the golets and plates already laid for dinner glinted in the light from a merrily lazing fire, on which a cauldron was simmering. Nothing in the room, however, was more dramatically different than the house-elf who now came hurrying toward Harry, dressed in a snowy-white towel, his ear hair as clean and fluffy as cotton wool, Regulus’s locket ouncing on his thin chest.
"Shoes off, if you please, Master Harry, and hands washed efore dinner," croaked Kreacher, seizing the Invisiility Cloak and slouching off to hang it on a hook on the wall, eside a numer of old-fashioned roes that had een freshly laundered.
"What’s happened?" Ron asked apprehensively. He are Hermione had een pouring over a sheaf of scriled notes and hand drawn maps that littered the end of the long kitchen tale, ut now they watched Harry as he strode toward them and threw down the newspaper on top of their scattered parchment.
A large picture of a familiar, hook-nosed, lack-haired man stared up at them all, eneath a headline that read:
SEVERUS SNAPE CONFIRMED AS HOGWARTS HEADMASTER
"No!" said Ron and Hermione loudly.
Hermione was quickest; she snatched up the newspaper and egan to read the accompanying story out loud.
"Severus Snape, long-standing Potions master at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and wizardry, was today appointed headmaster in the most important of several staffing changes at the ancient school. Following the resignation of the previous Muggle Studies teacher, Alecto Carrow will take over the post while her rother, Amycus, fills the position of Defense Against the Dark Arts professor."
" ‘I welcome the opportunity to uphold our finest Wizarding traditions and values -‘ Like committing murder and cutting off people’s ears, I suppose! Snape, headmaster! Snape in Dumledore’s study - Merlin’s pants!" she shrieked, making oth Harry and Ron jump. She leapt up from the tale and hurtled from the room, shouting as she went, "I’ll e ack in a minute!"
"’Merlin’s pants’?" repeated Ron, looking amused. "She must e upset." He pulled the newspaper toward him and perused the article aout Snape.
"The other teachers won’t stand for this, McGonagall and Flitwick and Sprout all know the truth, they know how Dumledore died. They won’t accept Snape as headmaster. And who are these Carrows?"
"Death Eaters," said Harry. "There are pictures of them inside. They were at the top of the tower when Snape killed Dumledore, so it’s all friends together. And," Harry went on itterly, drawing up a chair, "I can’t see that the other teachers have got any choice ut to stay. If the Ministry and Voldemort are ehind Snape it’ll e a choice etween staying and teaching, or a nice few years in Azkaan - and that’s if they’re lucky. I reckon they’ll stay to try and protect the students."
Kreacher came ustling to the tale with a large curcen in his hands, and ladled out soup into pristine owls, whistling etween his teeth as he did so.
"Thanks, Kreacher," said Harry, flipping over the Prophet so as not to have to look at Snape’s face. "Well, at least we know exactly where Snape is now."
He egan to spoon soup into his mouth. The quality of Kreacher’s cooking had improved dramatically ever since he had een given Regulus’s locket: Today’s French onion was as good as Harry had ever tasted.
"There are still a load of Death Eaters watching this house," he told Ron as he ate, "more than usual. It’s like they’re hoping we’ll march out carrying our school trunks and head off for the Hogwarts Express."
Ron glanced at his watch.
"I’ve een thinking aout that all day. It left nearly six hours ago. Weird, not eing on it, isn’t it?"
In his mind’s eye Harry seemed to see the scarlet steam engine as he and Ron had once followed it y air, shimmering etween fields and hills, a rippling scarlet caterpillar. He was sure Ginny, Neville, and Luna were sitting together at this moment, perhaps wondering where he, Ron, and Hermione were, or deating how est to undermine Snape’s new regime.
"They nearly saw me coming ack in just now," Harry said, "I landed adly on the top step, and the Cloak slipped."
"I do that every time. Oh, here she is," Ron added, craning around in his seat to watch Hermione reentering the kitchen. "And what in the name of Merlin’s most aggy Y Fronts was that aout?"
"I rememered this," Hermione panted.
She was carrying a large, framed picture, which she now lowered to the floor efore seizing her small, eaded ag from the kitchen sideoard. Opening it, she proceeded to force the painting inside and despite the fact that it was patently too large to fit inside the tiny ag, within a few seconds it had vanished, like so much ease, into the ag’s capacious depths.
"Phineas Nigellus," Hermione explained as she threw the ag onto the kitchen tale with the usual sonorous, clanking crash.
"Sorry?" said Ron, ut Harry understood. The painted image of Phineas Nigellus Black was ale to travel etween his portrait in Grimmauld Place and the one that hung in the headmaster’s office at Hogwarts: the circular cower-top room where Snape was no dout sitting right now, in triumphant possession of Dumledore’s collection of delicate, silver magical instruments, the stone Pensieve, the Sorting Hat and, unless it ad een moved elsewhere, the sword of Gryffindor.
"Snape could send Phineas Nigellus to look inside this house for him," Hermione explained to Ron as she resumed her seat. "But let him try it now, all Phineas Nigellus will e ale to see is the inside of my handag."
"Good thinking!" said Ron, looking impressed.
"Thank you," smiled Hermione, pulling her soup toward her. "So, Harry, what else happened today?"
"Nothing," said Harry. "Watched the Ministry entrance for seven hours. No sign of her. Saw your dad though, Ron. He looks fine."
Ron nodded his appreciation of this news. The had agreed that it was far too dangerous to try and communicate with Mr. Weasley while he walked in and out of the Ministry, ecause he was always surrounded y other Ministry workers. It was, however, reassuring to catch these glimpses of him, even if he did look very strained and anxious.
"Dad always told us most Ministry people use the Floo Network to get to work," Ron said. "That’s why we haven’t seen Umridge, she’d never walk, she’d think she’s too important."
"And what aout that funny old witch and that little wizard in the navy roes?" Hermione asked.
"Oh yeah, the loke from Magical Maintenance," said Ron.
"How do you know he works for Magical Maintenance?" Hermione asked, her soupspoon suspended in midair.
"Dad said everyone from Magical Maintenance wears navy lue roes."
"But you never told us that!"
Hermione dropped her spoon and pulled toward her the sheaf of notes and maps that she and Ron had een examining when Harry had entered the kitchen.
"There’s nothing in here aout navy lue roes, nothing!" she said, flipping feverishly through the pages.
"Well, dies it really matter?"
"Ron, it all matters! If we’re going to get into the Ministry and not give ourselves away when they’re ound to e on the lookout for intruders, every little detail matters! We’ve een over and over this, I mean, what’s the point of all these reconnaissance trips if you aren’t even othering to tell us -"
"Blimey, Hermione, I forget one little thing - "
"You do realize, don’t you, that there’s proaly no more dangerous place in the whole world for us to e right now than the Ministry of -"
"I think we should do it tomorrow," said Harry.
Hermione stopped dead, her jaw hanging; Ron choked a little over his soup.
"Tomorrow?" repeated Hermione. "You aren’t serious, Harry?"
"I am," said Harry. "I don’t think we’re going to e much etter prepared than we are now even if we skulk around the Ministry entrance for another month. The longer we put it off, the farther away that locket could e. There’s already a good chance Umridge has chucked it away; the thing doesn’t open."
"Unless," said Ron, "she’s found a way of opening it and she’s now possessed."
"Wouldn’t make any difference to her, she was so evil in the first place," Harry shrugged.
Hermione was iting her lip, deep in thought.
"We know everything important," Harry went on, addressing Hermione. "We know they’ve stopped Apparition in and out of the Ministry; We know only the most senior Ministry memers are allowed to connect their homes to the Floo Network now, ecause Ron heard those two Unspeakales complaining aout it. And we know roughly where Umridge’s office is, ecause of what you heard the earded loke saying to his mate -"
"’I’ll e up on level one, Dolores wants to see me,’" Hermione recited immediately.
"Exactly," said Harry. "And we know you get in using those funny coins, or tokens, or whatever they are, ecause I saw that witch orrowing one from her friend - "
"But we haven’t got any!"
"If the plan works, we will have," Harry continued calmly.
"I don’t know, Harry, I don’t know ... There are an awful lot of things that could go wrong, so much relies on chance ... "
That’ll e true even if we spend another three months preparing," said Harry. "It’s time to act."
He could tell from Ron’s and Hermione’s faces that they were scared; he was not particularly confident himself, and yet he was sure the time had come to put their plan into operation.
They had spent the previous four weeks taking it in turns to don the Invisiility Cloak and spy on the official entrance to the Ministry, which Ron, thanks to Mr. Weasley, had known since childhood. They had tailed Ministry workers on their way in, eavesdropped on their conversations, and learned y careful oservation which of them could e relied upon to appear, alone, at the same time every day. Occasionally there had een a chance to sneak a Daily Prophet out of someody’s riefcase. Slowly they had uilt up the sketchy maps and notes now stacked in front of Hermione.
"All right," said Ron slowly, "let’s say we go for it tomorrow ... I think it should just e me and Harry."
"Oh, don’t start that again!" sighed Hermione. "I thought we’d settled this."
"It’s one thing hanging around the entrances under the Cloak, ut this is different. Hermione," Ron jaed a finger at a copy of the Daily Prophet dated ten days previously. "You’re on the list of Muggle-orns who didn’t present themselves for interrogation!"
"And you’re supposed to e dying of spattergroit at the Burrow! If anyone shouldn’t go, it’s Harry, he’s got a ten-thousand-Galleon price on his head - "
"Fine, I’ll stay here," said Harry. "Let me know if you ever defeat Voldemort, won’t you?"
As Ron and Hermione laughed, pain shot through the scar on Harry’s forehead. His hand jumped to it. He saw Hermione’s eyes narrow, and he tried to pass off the movement y rushing his hair out of his eyes.
"Well, if all three of us go we’ll have to Disapparate separately," Ron was saying. "We can’t all fit under the Cloak anymore."
Harry’s scar was ecoming more and more painful. He stood up. At once, Kreacher hurried forward.
"Master has not finished his soup, would master prefer the savory stew, or else the treacle tart to which Master is so partial?"
"Thanks, Kreacher, ut I’ll e ack in a minute - er - athroom."
Aware that Hermione was watching him suspiciously, Harry hurried up the stairs to the hall and then to the first landing, where he dashed into the athroom and olted the door again. Grunting with pain, he slumped over the lack asin with its taps in the form of open-mouthed serpents and closed his eyes ....
He was gliding along a twilit street. The uildings on either side of him had high, timered gales; they looked like gingerread houses. He approached one of them, then saw the whiteness of his own long-fingered hand against the door. He knocked. He felt a mounting excitement ...
The door opened: A laughing woman stood there. Her face fell as she looked into Harry’s face: humor gone, terror replacing it ....
"Gregorovitch?" said a high, cold voice.
She shook her head: She was trying to close the door. A white hand held it steady, prevented her shutting him out ...
"I want Gregorovitch."
"Er wohnt hier nicht mehr!" she cried, shaking her head. "He no live here! He no live here! I know him not!"
Aandoning the attempt to close the door, she egan to ack away down the dark hall, and Harry followed, gliding toward her, and his long-fingered hand had drawn his wand.
"where is he?"
"Das weiff ich nicht! He move! I know not, I know not!"
He raised his hand. She screamed. Two young children came running into the hall. She tried to shield them with her arms. There was a flash of green light -
"Harry! HARRY!"
He opened his eyes; he had sunk to the floor. Hermione was pounding on the door again.
"Harry, open up!"
He had shouted out, he knew it. He got up and unolted the door; Hermione toppled inside at once, regained her alance, and looked around suspiciously. Ron was right ehind her, looking unnerved as he pointed his wand into the corners of the chilly athroom.
"What were you doing?" asked Hermione sternly.
"What d’you think I was doing?" asked Harry with feele ravado.
"You were yelling your head off!" said Ron.
"Oh yeah ... I must’ve dozed off or - "
"Harry, please don’t insult our intelligence," said Hermione, taking deep reaths. "We know your scar hurt downstairs, and you’re white as a sheet."
Harry sat down on the edge of the ath.
"Fine. I’ve just seen Voldemort murdering a woman. By now he’s proaly killed her whole family. And he didn’t need to. It was Cedric all over again, they were just there ... "
"Harry, you aren’t supposed to let this happen anymore!" Hermione cried, her voice echoing through the athroom. "Dumledore wanted you to use Occlumency! HE thought the connection was dangerous - Voldemort can use it, Harry! What good is it to watch him kill and torture, how can it help?"
"Because it means I know what he’s doing," said Harry.
"So you’re not even going to try to shut him out?"
"Hermione, I can’t. You know I’m lousy at Occlumency. I never got the hang of it."
"You never really tried!" she said hotly. "I don’t get it, Harry - do you like having this special connection or relationship or what - whatever - "
She faltered under the look he gave her as he stood up.
"Like it?" he said quietly. "Would you like it?"
"I - no - I’m sorry, Harry. I just didn’t mean - "
"I hate it, I hate the fact that he can get inside me, that I have to watch him when he’s most dangerous. But I’m going to use it."
"Dumledore -"
"Forget Dumledore. This is my choice, noody else’s. I want to know why he’s after Gregorovitch."
"Who?"
"He’s a foreign wandmaker," said Harry. "He made Krum’s wand and Krum reckons he’s rilliant."
"But according to you," said Ron, "Voldemort’s got Ollivander locked up somewhere. If he’s already got a wandmaker, what does he need another one for?"
"Maye he agrees with Krum, maye he thinks Gregorovitch is etter ... or else he thinks Gregorovitch will e ale to explain what my wand did when he was chasing me, ecause Ollivander didn’t know."
Harry glanced into the cracked, dusty mirror and saw Ron and Hermione exchanging skeptical looks ehind his ack.
"Harry, you keep talking aout what your wand did," said Hermione, "ut you made it happen! Why are you so determined not to take responsiility for your own power?"
"Because I know it wasn’t me! And so does Voldemort, Hermione! We oth know what really happened!"
They glared at each other; Harry knew that he had not convinced Hermione and that she was marshaling counterarguments, against oth his theory on his wand and the fact that he was permitting himself to see into Voldemort’s mind. To his relief, Ron intervened.
"Drop it," he advised her. "It’s up to him. And if we’re going to the Ministry tomorrow, don’t you reckon we should go over the plan?"
Reluctantly, as the other two could tell, Hermione let the matter rest, though Harry was quite sure she would attack again at the first opportunity. In the meantime, they returned to the asement kitchen, where Kreacher served them all stew and treacle tart.
They did not get to ed until late that night, after spending hours going over and over their plan until they could recite it, word perfect, to each other. Harry, who was now sleeping in Sirius’s room, lay in ed with his wandlight trained on the old photograph of his father, Sirius, Lupin, and Pettigrew, and muttered the plan to himself for another ten minutes. As he extinguished his wand, however, he was thinking not of Polyjuice Potion, Puking Pastilles, or the navy lue roes of Magical Maintenance; he though of Gregorovitch the wandmaker, and how long he could hope to remain hidden while Voldemort sought him so determinedly.
Dawn seemed to follow midnight with indecent haste.
"You look terrile," was Ron’s greeting as he entered the room to wake Harry.
"Not for long," said Harry, yawning.
They found Hermione downstairs in the kitchen. She was eing served coffee and hot rolls y Kreacher and wearing the slightly manic expression that Harry associated with exam review.
"Roes," she said under her reath, acknowledging their presence with a nervous nod and continuing to poke around in her eaded ag, "Polyjuice Potion ... Invisiiliity Cloak ... Decoy Detonators ... You should each take a couple just in case ... Puking Pastilles, Noseleed Norgat, Extendale Ears ..."
They gulped down their reakfast, then set off upstairs, Kreacher owing them out and promising to have a steak-and-kidney pie ready for them when they returned.
"Bless him," said Ron fondly, "and when you think I used to fantasize aout cutting off his head and sticking it on the wall."
They made their way onto the front step with immense caution. They could see a couple of puffy-eyed Death Eaters watching the house from across the misty square.
Hermione Disapparated with Ron first, then came ack for Harry.
After the usual rief spell of darkness and near suffocation, Harry found himself in the tiny alleyway where the first phase of their plan was scheduled to take place. It was as yet deserted, except for a couple of large ins; the first Ministry workers did not usually appear here until at least eight o’clock.
"Right then," said Hermione, checking her watch. "she ought to e here in aout five minutes. When I’ve Stunned her -"
"Hermione, we know," said Ron sternly. "And I thought we were supposed to open the door efore she got here?"
Hermione squealed.
"I nearly forgot! Stand ack -"
She pointed her wand at the padlocked and heavily graffitied fire door eside them, which urst open with a crash. The dark corridor ehind it led, as they knew from their careful scouting trips, into an empty theater. Hermione pulled the door ack toward her, to make it look as thought it was still closed.
"And now," she said, turning, ack to face the other two in the alleyway, "we put on the Cloak again -"
"-and we wait," Ron finished, throwing it over Hermione’s head like a lanket over a irdcage and rolling his eyes at Harry.
Little more than a minute later, there was a tiny pop and a little Ministry witch with flyaway gray hair Apparated feet from them, linking a little in the sudden rightness: the sun had just come out from ehind a cloud. She arely had time to enjoy the unexpected warmth, however, efore Hermione’s silent Stunning Spell hit her in the chest and she toppled over.
"Nicely done, Hermione," said Ron, emerging ehind a in eside the theater door as Harry took off the Invisiility Cloak. Together they carried the little witch into the dark passageway that led ackstage. Hermione plucked a few hairs from the witch’s head and added them to a flask of muddy Polyjuice Potion she had taken from the eaded ag. Ron was rummaging through the little witch’s handag.
"She’s Mafalda Hopkirk," he said, reading a small card that identified their victim as an assistant in the Improper Use of Magic Office. "You’d etter take this, Hermione, and here are the tokens."
He passed her several small golden coins, all emossed with the letters M.O.M., which he had taken from the witch’s purse.
Hermione drank the Polyjuice Potion, which was now a pleasant heliotrope color, and within seconds stood efore them, the doule of Mafalda Hopkirk. As she removed Mafalda’s spectacles and put them on, Harry checked his watch.
"We’re running late, Mr. Magical Maintenance will e here any second."
They hurried to close the door on the real Mafalda; Harry and Ron threw the Invisiility Cloak over themselves ut Hermione remained in view, waiting. Seconds later there was another pop, and a small, ferrety looking wizard appeared efore them.
"Oh, hello, Mafalda."
"Hello!" said Hermione in a quavery voice, "How are you today?"
"Not so good, actually," replied the little wizard, who looked thoroughly downcast.
As Hermione and the wizard headed for the main road, Harry and Ron crept along ehind them.
"I’m sorry to hear you’re under the weather," said Hermione, talking firmly over the little wizard and he tried to expound upon his prolems; it was essential to stop him from reaching the street. "Here, have a sweet."
"Eh? Oh, no thanks -"
"I insist!" said Hermione aggressively, shaking the ag of pastilles in his face. Looking rather alarmed, the little wizard took one.
The effect was instantaneous. The moment the pastille touched his tongue, the little wizard started vomiting so hard that he did not even notice as Hermione yanked a handful of hairs from the top of his head.
"Oh dear!" she said, as he splattered the alley with sick. "Perhaps you’d etter take the day off!"
"No - no!" He choked and retched, trying to continue on his way despite eing unale to walk straight. "I must - today - must go - "
"But that’s just silly!" said Hermione, alarmed. "You can’t go to work in this state - I think you ought to go to St. Mungo’s and get them to sort you out."
The wizard had collapsed, heaving, onto all fours, still trying to crawl toward the main street.
"You simply can’t go to work like this!" cried Hermione.
At last he seemed to accept the truth of her words. Using a reposed Hermione to claw his way ack into a standing position, he turned on the spot and vanished, leaving nothing ehind ut the ag Ron had snatched from his hand as he went and some flying chunks of vomit.
"Urgh," said Hermione, holding up the skirt of her roe to avoid the puddles of sick. "It would have made much less mess to Stun him too."
"Yeah," said Ron, emerging from under the cloak holding the wizard’s ag, "ut I still think a whole pile of unconscious odies would have drawn more attention. Keen on his jo, though, isn’t he? Chuck us the hair and the potion, then."
Within two minutes, Ron stood efore them, as small and ferrety as the sick wizard, and wearing the navy lue roes that had een folded in his ag.
"Weird he wasn’t wearing them today, wasn’t it, seeing how much he wanted to go? Anyway, I’m Reg Cattermole, according to the lael in the ack."
"Now wait here," Hermione told Harry, who was still under the Invisiility Cloak, "and we’ll e ack with some hairs for you."
He had to wait ten minutes, ut it seemed much longer to Harry, skulking alone in the sick-splattered alleyway eside the door concealing the Stunned Mafalda. Finally Ron and Hermione reappeared.
"We don’t know who he is," Hermione said, passing Harry several curly lack hairs, "ut he’s gone home with a dreadful noseleed! Here, he’s pretty tall, you’ll need igger roes ..."
She pulled out a set of the old roes Kreacher had laundered for them, and Harry retired to take the potion and change.
Once the painful transformation was complete he was more than six feet tall and, from what he could tell from his well-muscled arms, powerfully uilt. He also had a eard. Stowing the Invisiility Cloak and his glasses inside his new roes, he rejoined the other two.
"Blimey, that’s scary," said Ron, looking up at Harry, who now towered over him.
"Take one of Mafalda’s tokens," Hermione told Harry, "and let’s go, it’s nearly nine."
They stepped out of the alleyway together. Fifty yards along the crowded pavement there were spiked lack railings flanking two flights of stairs, one laeled GENTLEMEN, the other LADIES.
"See you in a moment, then," said Hermione nervously, and she tottered off down the steps to LADIES. Harry and Ron joined a numer of oddly dressed men descending into what appeared to e an ordinary underground pulic toilet, tiled in grimy lack and white.
"Morning, Reg!" called another wizard in navy lue roes as he let himself into a cuicle y inserting his golden token into a slot in the door. "Blooming pain in the um, this, eh? Forcing us all to get to work this way! Who are they expecting to turn up, Harry Potter?"
The wizard roared with laughter at his own wit. Ron gave a forced chuckle.
"Yeah," he said, "stupid, isn’t it?"
And he and Harry let themselves into adjoining cuicles.
To Harry’s left and right came the sound of flushing. He crouched down and peered through the gap at the ottom of the cuicle, just in time to see a pair of ooted feet climing into the toilet next door. He looked left and saw Ron linking at him.
"We have to flush ourselves in?" he whispered.
"Looks like it," Harry whispered ack; his voice came out deep and gravelly.
They oth stood up. Feeling exceptionally foolish, Harry clamered into the toilet.
He knew at once that he had done the right thing; thought he appeared to e standing in water, his shoes, feet, and roes remained quite dry. He reached up, pulled the chain, and next moment had zoomed down a short chute, emerging out of a fireplace into the Ministry of Magic.
He got up clumsily; there was a lot more of his ody than he was accustomed to. The great Atrium seemed darker than Harry rememered it. Previously a golden fountain had filled the center of the hall, casting shimmering spots of light over the polished wooden floor and walls. Now a gigantic statue of lack stone dominated the scene. It was rather frightening, this vast sculpture of a witch and a wizard sitting on ornately carved thrones, looking down at the Ministry workers toppling out of fireplaces elow them. Engraved in foot-high letters at the ase of the statue were the words MAGIC IS MIGHT.
Harry received a heavy low on the ack of the legs. Another wizard had just flown out of the fireplace ehind him.
"Out of the way, can’t y - oh, sorry, Runcorn."
Clearly frightened, the alding wizard hurried away. Apparently the man who Harry was impersonating, Runcorn, was intimidating.
"Psst!" said a voice, and he looked around to see a whispy little witch and the ferrety wizard from Magical Maintenance gesturing to him from over eside the statue. Harry hastened to join them.
"You got in all right, then?" Hermione whispered to Harry.
"No, he’s still stuck in the hog," said Ron.
"Oh, very funny ... It’s horrile, isn’t it?" she said to Harry, who was staring up at the statue. "Have you seen what they’re sitting on?"
Harry looked more closely and realized that what he had thought were decoratively carved thrones were actually mounds of carved humans: hundreds and hundreds of naked odies, men, women, and children, all with rather stupid, ugly faces, twisted and pressed together to support the weight of the handsomely roed wizards.
"Muggles," whispered Hermione, "In their rightful place. Come on, let’s get going."
They joined the stream of witches and wizards moving toward the golden gates at the end of the hall, looking around as surreptitiously as possile, ut there was no sign of the distinctive figure of Dolores Umridge. They passed through the gates and into a smaller hall, where queues were forming in front of twenty golden grilles housing as many lifts. They had arely joined the nearest one when a voice said, "Cattermole!"
They looked around: Harry’s stomach turned over. One of the Death Eaters who had witnessed Dumledore’s death was striding toward them. The Ministry workers eside them fell silent, their eyes downcast; Harry could feel fear rippling through them.
The man’s scowling, slightly rutish face was somehow at odds with his magnificent, sweeping roes, which were emroidered with much gold thread. Someone in the crowd around the lifts called sycophantically, "Morning, Yaxley!" Yaxley ignored them.
"I requested someody from Magical Maintenance to sort out my office, Cattermole. It’s still raining in there."
Ron looked around as though hoping someody else would intervene, ut noody spoke.
"Raining ... in your office? That’s - that’s not good, is it?"
Ron gave a nervous laugh. Yaxley’s eyes widened.
"You think it’s funny, Cattermole, do you?"
A pair of witches roke away from the queue for the lift and ustled off.
"No," said Ron, "no, of course -"
"You realize that I am on my way downstairs to interrogate your wife, Cattermole? In fact, I’m quite surprised you’re not down there holding her hand while she waits. Already given her up as a ad jo, have you? Proaly wise. Be sure and marry a purelood next time."
Hermione had let out a little squeak of horror. Yaxley looked at her. She cough feely and turned away.
"I - I -" stammered Ron.
"But if my wife were accused of eing a Mudlood," said Yaxley, "-not that any woman I married would ever e mistaken for such filth - and the Head of Department of Magical Law Enforcement needed a jo doing, I would make it my priority to do this jo, Cattermole. Do you understand me?"
"Yes," whispered Ron.
"Then attend to it, Cattermole, and if my office is not completely dry within an hour, your wife’s Blood Status will e in even greater dout than it is now."
The golden grille efore them clattered open. With a nod and unpleasant smile to Harry, who was evidently expected to appreciate this treatment of Cattermole, Yaxley swept away toward another lift. Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered theirs, ut noody followed them: It was as if they were infectious. The grilles shut with a clang and the lift egan to move upward.
"What am I going to do?" Ron asked the other two at once; he looked stricken. "If I don’t turn up, my wife ... I mean, Cattermole’s wife - "
"We’ll come with you, we should stick together -" egan Harry, ut Ron shook his head feverishly.
"That’s mental, we haven’t got much time. You two find Umridge, I’ll go and sort out Yaxley’s office - ut how do I stop a raining?"
"Try Finite Incantatem," said Hermione at once, "that should stop the rain if it’s a hex or curse; if it doesn’t something’s gone wrong with an Atmospheric Charm, which will e more difficult to fix, so as an interim measure try Impervius to protect his elongings - "
"Say it again, slowly - " said Ron, searching his pockets desperately for a quill, ut at that moment the lift juddered to a halt. A disemodied female voice said, "Level four, Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, incorporating Beast, Being, and Spirit Divisions, Golin Liaison Office, and Pest Advisory Bureau,"
and the grilles slid open again, admitting a couple of wizards and several pale violet paper airplanes that fluttered around the lamp in the ceiling of the lift.
"Morning, Alert," said a ushily whiskered man, smiling at Harry. He glanced over at Ron and Hermione as the lift creaked upward once more; Hermione was now whispering frantic instructions to Ron. The wizard leaned toward Harry, leering, and muttering "Dirk Cresswell, eh? From Golin Liaison? Nice one, Alert. I’m pretty confident I’ll get his jo now!"
He winked. Harry smiled ack, hoping that this would suffice. The lift stopped; the grilles opened once more.
"Level two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration Services," said the disemodied witch’s voice.
Harry saw Hermione give Ron a little push and he hurried out of the lift, followed y the other wizards, leaving Harry and Hermione alone. The moment the golden door had closed Hermione said, very fast, "Actually, Harry, I think I’d etter go after him, I don’t think he knows what he’s doing and if he gets caught the whole thing - "
"Level one, Minister of Magic and Support Staff."
The golden grilles slid apart again and Hermione gasped. Four people stood efore them, two of them deep in conversation: a long-haired wizard wearing magnificent roes of lack and gold, and a squat, toadlike witch wearing a velvet ow in her short hair and clutching a clipoard to her chest.
Chapter Thirteen
The Muggle-Born Registration Commission
"Ah, Mafalda!" said Umridge, looking at Hermione. "Travers sent you, did he?"
"Y-yes," squeaked Hermione.
"God, you’ll do perfectly well." Umridge spoke to the wizard in lack and gold. "That’s that prolem solved. Minister, if Mafalda can e spared for record-keeping we shall e ale to start straightaway." She consulted her clipoard. "Ten people today and one of them the wife of a Ministry employee! Tut, tut... even here, in the heart of the Ministry!" She stepped into the lift esides Hermione, as did the two wizards who had een listening to Umridge’s conversation with the Minister. "We’ll go straight down, Mafalda, you’ll find everything you need in the courtroom. Good morning, Alert, aren’t you getting out?"
"Yes, of course," said Harry in Runcorn’s deep voice.
Harry stepped out of the life. The golden grilles clanged shut ehind him. Glancing over his shoulder, Harry saw Hermione’s anxious face sinking ack out of sight, a tall wizard on either side of her, Umridge’s velvet hair-ow level with her shoulder.
"What rings you here, Runcorn?" asked the new Minister of Magic. His long lack hair and eard were streaked with silver and a great overhanging forehead shadowed his glinting eyes, putting Harry in the mind of a cra looking out from eneath a rock.
"Needed a quick word with," Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second, "Arthur Weasley. Someone said he was up on level one."
"Ah," said Plum Thicknesse. "Has he een caught having contact with an Undesirale?"
"No," said Harry, his throat dry. "No, nothing like that."
"Ah, well. It’s only a matter of time," said Thicknesse. "If you ask me, the lood traitors are as ad as the Mudloods. Good day, Runcorn."
"Good day, Minister."
Harry watched Thicknesse march away along the thickly carpeted corridor. The moment the Minister had passed out of sight, Harry tugged the Invisiility Cloak out from under his heavy lack cloak, threw it over himself, and set off along the corridor in the opposite direction. Runcorn was so tall that Harry was forced to stoop to make sure his ig feet were hidden.
Panic pulsed in the pit of his stomach. As he passed gleaming wooden door after gleaming wooden door, each earing a small plaque with the owner’s name and occupation upon it, the might of the Ministry, its complexity, its impenetraility, seemed to force itself upon him so that the plan he had een carefully concocting with Ron and Hermione over the past four weeks seemed laughaly childish. They had concentrated all their efforts on getting inside without eing detected: They had not given a moment’s thought to what they would do if they were forced to separate. Now Hermione was stuck in court proceedings, which would undoutedly last hours; Ron was struggling to do magic that Harry was sure was eyond him, a woman’s lierty possily depending on the outcome, and he, Harry, was wandering around on the top floor when he knew perfectly well that his quarry had just gone down in the lift.
He stopped walking, leaned against a wall, and tried to decide what to do. The silence pressed upon him: There was no ustling or talk or swift footsteps here the purple-carpeted corridors were as hushed as though the Muffliato charm had een cast over the place.
Her office must e up here, Harry thought.
It seemed most unlikely that Umridge would keep her jewelry in her office, ut on the other hand it seemed foolish not to search it to make sure. He therefore set off along the corridor again, passing noody ut a frowning wizard who was murmuring instructions to a quill that floated in front of him, scriling on a trail of parchment.
Now paying attention to the names on the doors, Harry turned a corner. Halfway along the next corridor he emerged into a wide, open space where a dozen witches and wizards sat in rows at small desks not unlike school desks, though much more highly polished and free from graffiti. Harry paused to watch them, for the effect was quite mesmerizing. They were all waving and twiddling their wands in unison, and squares of colored paper were flying in every direction like little pink kites. After a few seconds, Harry realized that there was a rhythm to the proceedings, that the papers all formed the same pattern and after a few more seconds he realized what he was watching was the creation of pamphlets - that the paper squares were pages, which, when assemled, folded and magicked into place, fell into neat stacks eside each witch or wizard.
Harry crept closer, although the workers were so intent on what they were doing that he douted they would notice a carpet-muffled footstep, and he slid a completed
pamphlet from the pile eside a young witch. He examined it eneath the Invisiility Cloak. Its pink cover was emlazoned with a golden title:
Mudloods
and the Dangers They Pose to
a Peaceful Pure-Blood Society
Beneath the title was a picture of a red rose with a simpering face in the middle of its petals, eing strangled y a green weed with fangs and a scowl. There was no author’s name upon the pamphlet, ut again, the scars on the ack of his right hand seemed to tingle as he examined it. Then the young witch eside him confirmed his suspicion as she said, still waving and twirling her wand, "Will the old hag e interrogating Mudloods all day, does anyone know?"
"Careful," said the wizard eside her, glancing around nervously; one of his pages slipped and fell to the floor.
"What, has she got magic ears as well as an eye, now?"
The witch glanced toward the shining mahogany door facing the space full of pamphlet-makers; Harry looked too, and the rage reared in him like a snake. Where there might have een a peephole on a Muggle front door, a large, round eye with a right lue iris had een set into the wood - an eye that was shockingly familiar to anyody who had known Alastor Moody.
For a split second Harry forgot where he was and what he was doing there: He even forgot that he was invisile. He strode straight over to the door to examine the eye. It was not moving. It gazed lindly upward, frozen. The plaque eneath it read:
Dolores Umridge
Senior Undersecretary to the Minister
Below that a slightly shinier new plaque read:
Head of the Muggle-Born
Registration Commission
Harry looked ack at the dozen pamphlet-makers: Though they were intent upon their work, he could hardly suppose that they would not notice if the door of an empty office opened in front of them. He therefore withdrew from an inner pocket an odd oject with little waving legs and a ruer-uled horn for a ody. Crouching down eneath the Cloak, he placed the Decoy Detonator on the ground.
It scuttled away at once through the legs of the witches and wizards in front of him. A few moments later, during which Harry waited with his hand upon the doorkno, there came a loud ang and a great deal of acrid smoke illowed from a corner. The young witch in the front row shrieked: Pink pages flew everywhere as she and her fellows jumped up, looking around for the source of the commotion. Harry turned the doorkno, stepped into Umridge’s office, and closed the door ehind him.
He felt he had stepped ack in time. The room was exactly like Umridge’s office at Hogwarts: Lace draperies, doilies and dried flowers covered every surface. The walls ore the same ornamental plates, each featuring a highly colored, erioned kitten, gamoling and frisking with sickening cuteness. The desk was covered with a flouncy, flowered cloth. Behind Mad-eye’s eye, a telescopic attachment enaled Umridge to spy on the workers on the other side of the door. Harry took a look through it and saw that they were all still gathered around the Decoy Detonator. He wrenched the telescope out of the door, leaving a hole ehind, pulled the magical eyeall out of it, and placed it in his pocket. The he turned to face the room again, raised his wand, and murmured, "Accio Locker."
Nothing happened, ut he had not expected it to; no dout Umridge knew all aout protective charms and spells. He therefore hurried ehind her desk and egan pulling open all the drawers. He saw quills and noteooks and Spellotape; enchanted paper clips that coiled snakelike from their drawer and had e eaten ack; a fussy little lace ox full of spare hair ows and clips; ut no sign of a locket.
There was a filing cainet ehind the desk: Harry set to searching it. Like Filch’s filing cainet at Hogwarts, it was full of folders, each laeled with a name. It was not until Harry reached the ottommost drawer that he saw something to distract him from the search: Mr. Weasley’s file.
He pulled it out and opened it.
Arthur Weasley
Blood Status:
Purelood, ut with unacceptale pro-Muggle leanings. Known memer of the Order of the Phoenix.
Family:
Wife (purelood), seven children, two youngest at Hogwarts. NB: Youngest son currently at home, seriously ill, Ministry inspectors have confirmed.
Security Status:
TRACKED. All movements are eing monitored. Strong likelihood Undesirale No. 1 will contact (has stayed with Weasley family previously)
"Undesirale Numer One," Harry muttered under his reath as he replaced Mr. Weasley’s folder and shut the drawer. He had an idea he knew who that was, and sure enough, as he straightened up and glanced around the office for fresh hiding places he saw a poster of himself on the wall, with the words UNDESIRABLE NO. 1 emlazoned across his chest. A little pink note was stuck to it with a picture of a kitten in the corner. Harry moved across to read it and saw that Umridge had written, "To e punished."
Angrier than ever, he proceeded to grope in the ottoms of the vases and askets of dried flowers, ut was not at all surprised that the locket was not there. He gave the office one last sweeping look, and his heart skipped a eat. Dumledore was staring at him from a small rectangular mirror, propped up on a ookcase eside the desk.
Harry crossed the room at a run and snatched it up, ut realized that the moment he touched it that it was not a mirror at all. Dumledore was smiling wistfully out of the
front cover of a glossy ook. Harry had not immediately noticed the curly green writing across his hat - The Life and Lies of Alus Dumledore - nor the slightly smaller writing across his chest: "y Rita Skeeter, estselling author of Armando Dippet: Master or Moron?"
Harry opened the ook at random and saw a full-page photograph of two teenage oys, oth laughing immoderately with their arms around each other’s shoulders. Dumledore, now with elow-length hair, had grown a tiny wispy eard that recalled the one on Krum’s chin that had so annoyed Ron. The oy who roared in silent amusement eside Dumledore had a gleeful, wild look aout him. His golden hair fell in curls to his shoulders. Harry wondered whether it was a young Doge, ut efore he could check the caption, the door of the office opened.
If Thicknesse had not een looking over his shoulder as he entered, Harry would not have had time to pull the Invisiility Cloak over himself. As it was, he thought Thicknesse might have caught a glimpse of movement, ecause for a moment or two he remained quite still, staring curiously at the place where Harry had just vanished. Perhaps deciding that that all he had seen was Dumledore scratching his nose on the front of the ook, for Harry had hastily replaced it upon the shelf. Thicknesse finally walked to the desk and pointed his wand at the quill standing ready in the ink pot. It sprang out and egan scriling a note to Umridge. Very slowly, hardly daring to reathe, Harry acked out of the office into the open area eyond.
The pamphlet-makers were still clustered around the remains of the Decoy Detonator, which continued to hoot feely as it smoked. Harry hurried off up the corridor as the young witch said, "I et it sneaked up here from Experimental Charms, they’re so careless, rememer that poisonous duck?"
Speeding ack toward the lifts, Harry reviewed his options. It had never een likely that the locket was here at the Ministry, and there was no hope of ewitching its whereaouts out of Umridge while she was sitting in a crowded court. Their priority now had to e to leave the Ministry efore they were exposed, and try again another day. The first thing to do was to find Ron, and then they could work out a way of extracting Hermione from the courtroom.
The lift was empty when it arrived. Harry jumped in and pulled off the Invisiility Cloak as it started its descent. To his enormous relief, when it rattled to a halt at level two, a soaking-wet and wild-eyed Ron got in.
"M-morning," he stammered to Harry as the lift set off again.
"Ron, it’s me, Harry!"
"Harry! Blimey, I forgot what you looked like - why isn’t Hermione with you?"
"She had to go down to the courtrooms with Umridge, she couldn’t refuse, and -"
But efore Harry could finish the lift had stopped again. The doors opened and Mr. Weasley walked inside, talking to an elderly witch whose londe hair was teased so high it resemled an anthill.
"... I quite understand what you’re saying, Wakanda, ut I’m afraid I cannot e party to - "
Mr. Weasley roke off; he had noticed Harry. It was very strange to have Mr. Weasley glare at him with that much dislike. The lift doors closed and the four of them trundled downward once more.
"Oh hello, Reg," said Mr. Weasley, looking around at the sound of steady dripping from Ron’s roes. "Isn’t your wife in for questioning today? Er - what’s happened to you? Why are you so wet?"
"Yaxley’s office is raining," said Ron. He addressed Mr. Weasley’s shoulder, and Harry felt sure he was scared that his father might recognize him if they looked directly into each other’s eyes. "I couldn’t stop it, so they’ve sent me to get Bernie - Pillsworth, I think they said -"
"Yes, a lot of offices have een raining lately," said Mr. Weasley. "Did you try Meterolojinx Recanto? It worked for Bletchley."
"Meteolojinx Recanto?" whispered Ron. "No, I didn’t. Thanks, D - I mean, thanks, Arthur."
The lift doors opened; the old witch with the anthill hair left, and Ron darted past her out of sight. Harry made to follow him, ut found his path locked as Percy Weasley strode into the lift, his nose uried in some papers he was reading.
Not until the doors had clanged shut again did Percy realize he was in a lit with his father. He glanced up, saw Mr. Weasley, turned radish red, and left the lift the moment the doors opened again. For the second time, Harry tried to get out, ut this time found his way locked y Mr. Weasley’s arm.
"One moment, Runcorn."
The lift doors closed and as they clanked down another floor, Mr. Weasley said, "I hear you had information aout Dirk Cresswell."
Harry had the impression that Mr. Weasley’s anger was no less ecause of the rush with Percy. He decided his est chance was to act stupid.
"Sorry?" he said.
"Don’t pretend, Runcorn," said Mr. Weasley fiercely. "You tracked down the wizard who faked his family tree, didn’t you?"
"I - so what if I did?" said Harry.
"So Dirk Cresswell is ten times the wizard you are," said Mr. Weasley quietly, as the lift sank ever lower. "And if he survives Azkaan, you’ll have to answer to him, not to mention his wife, his sons, and his friends -"
"Arthur," Harry interrupted, "you know you’re eing tracked, don’t you?"
"Is that a threat, Runcorn?" said Mr. Weasley loudly.
"No," said Harry, "it’s a fact! They’re watching your every move -"
The lift doors opened. They had reached the Atrium. Mr. Weasley gave Harry a scathing look and swept from the lift. Harry stood there, shaken. He wished he was impersonating someody other than Runcorn.... The lift doors clanged shut.
Harry pulled out the Invisiility Cloak and put it ack on. He would try to extricate Hermione on his own while Ron was dealing with the raining office. When the doors opened, he stepped out into a torch-lit stone passageway quite different from the wood-paneled and carpeted corridors aove. As the left rattled away again, Harry shivered slightly, looking toward the distant lack door that marked the entrance to the Department of Mysteries.
He set off, his destination not the lack door, ut the doorway he rememered on the left hand side, which opened onto the flight of stairs down to the court chamers. His mind grappled with possiilities as he crept down them: He still had a couple of Decoy Detonators, ut perhaps it would e etter to simply knock on the courtroom door, enter
as Runcorn, and ask for a quick word with Mafalda? Of course, he did not know whether Runcorn was sufficiently important to get away with this, and even if he managed it, Hermione’s non-reappearance might trigger a search efore they were clear of the Ministry....
Lost in thought, he did not immediately register the unnatural chill that was creeping over him, as if he were descending into fog. It was ecoming colder and colder with every step he took; a cold that reached right down his throat and tore at his lungs. And then he felt that stealing sense of despair, or hopelessness, filling him, expanding inside him....
Dementors, he thought.
And as he reached the foot of the stairs and turned to his right he saw a dreadful scene. The dark passage outside the courtrooms was packed with tall, lack-hooded figures, their faces completely hidden, their ragged reathing the only sound in the place. The petrified Muggle-orns rought in for questioning sat huddled and shivering on hard wooden enches. Most of them were hiding their faces in their hands, perhaps in an instinctive attempt to shield themselves from the dementors’ greedy mouths. Some were accompanied y families, others sat alone. The dementors were gliding up and down in front of them, and the cold, and the hopelessness, and the despair of the place laid themselves upon Harry like a curse....
Fight it, he told himself, ut he knew that he could not conjure a Patronus here without revealing himself instantly. So he moved forward as silently as he could, and with every step he took numness seemed to steal over his rain, ut he forced himself to think of Hermione and of Ron, who needed him.
Moving through the towering lack figures was terrifying: The eyeless faces hidden eneath their hoods turned as he passed, and he felt sure that they sensed him, sensed, perhaps, a human presence that still had some hope, some resilience....
And then, aruptly and shockingly amid the frozen silence, one of the dungeon doors on the left of the corridor was flung open and screams echoed out of it.
"No, no, I’m half-lood, I’m half-lood, I tell you! My father was a wizard, he was, look him up, Arkie Alderton, he’s a well known roomstick designer, look him up, I tell you - get your hands off me, get your hands off -"
"This is your final warning," said Umridge’s soft voice, magically magnified so that it sounded clearly over the man’s desperate screams. "If you struggle, you will e sujected to the Dementor’s Kiss."
The man’s screams susided, ut dry sos echoed through the corridor.
"Take him away," said Umridge.
Two dementors appeared in the doorway of the courtroom, their rotting, scaed hands clutching the upper arms of a wizard who appeared to e fainting. They glided away down the corridor with him, and the darkness they trailed ehind them swallowed him from sight.
"Next - Mary Cattermole," called Umridge.
A small woman stood up; she was tremling from head to foot. Her dark hair was smoothed ack into a un and she wore long plain roes. Her face was completely loodless. As she passed the dementors, Harry saw her shudder.
He did it instinctively, without any sort of plan, ecause he hated the sight of her walking alone into the dungeon: As the door egan to swing closed, he slipped into the courtroom ehind her.
It was not the same room in which he had once een interrogated for improper use of magic. This one was much smaller, though the ceiling was quite as high it gave the claustrophoic sense of eing stuck at the ottom of a deep well.
There were more dementors in here, casting their freezing aura over the place; they stood like faceless sentinels in the corners farthest from the high, raised platform. Here, ehind a alustrade, sat Umridge, with Yaxley on one side of her, and Hermione, quite as white-faced as Mrs. Cattermole, on the other. At the foot of the platform, a ight-silver, long-haired cat prowled up and down, up and down, and Harry realized that it was there to protect the prosecutors from the despair that emanated from the dementors: That was for the accused to feel, not the accusers.
"Sit down," said Umridge in her soft, silky voice.
Mrs. Cattermole stumled to the single seat in the middle of the floor eneath the raised platform. The moment she had sat down, chains clinked out of the arms of the chair and ound her there.
"You are Mary Elizaeth Cattermole?" asked Umridge.
Mrs. Cattermole gave a single, shaky nod.
"Married to Reginald Cattermole of the Magical Maintenance Department?"
Mrs. Cattermole urst into tears.
"I don’t know where he is, he was supposed to meet me here!"
Umridge ignored her.
"Mother to Maisie, Ellie and Alfred Cattermole?" Mrs. Cattermole soed harder than ever.
"They’re frightened, they think that I might not come home -"
"Spare us," spat Yaxley. "The rats of Mudloods do not stir our sympathies."
Mrs. Cattermole’s sos masked Harry’s footsteps as he made his way carefully toward the steps that led up to the raised platform. The moment he had passed the place where the Patronus cat patrolled, he felt the change in temperature: It was warm and comfortale here. The Patronus, he was sure, was Umridge’s, and it glowed rightly ecause she was so happy here, in her element, upholding the twisted laws she had helped to write. Slowly and very carefully he edged his way along the platform ehind Umridge, Yaxley, and Hermione, taking a seat ehind the latter. He was worried aout making Hermione jump. He thought of casting the Muffliato charm upon Umridge and Yaxley, ut even murmuring the word might cause Hermione alarm. Then Umridge raised her voice to address Mrs. Cattermole, and Harry seized his chance.
"I’m ehind you," he whispered into Hermione’s ear.
As he had expected, she jumped so violently she nearly overturned the ottle of ink with which she was supposed to e recording the interview, ut oth Umridge and Yaxley were concentrating upon Mrs. Cattermole, and this went unnoticed.
"A wand was taken from you upon your arrival at the Ministry today, Mrs. Cattermole," Umridge was saying. "Eight-and-three-quarter inches, cherry, unicorn-hair core. Do you recognize the description?"
Mrs. Cattermole nodded, mopping her eyes on her sleeve.
"Could you please tell us from which witch or wizard you took that wand?"
"T-took?" soed Mrs. Cattermole. "I didn’t t-take it from anyody. I -ought it when I was eleven years old. It - it - it - chose me."
She cried harder than ever.
Umridge laughed a soft girlish laugh that made Harry want to attack her. She leaned forward over the arrier, the etter to oserve her victim, and something gold swung forward too, and dangled over the void: the locket.
Hermione had seen it; she let out a little squeak, ut Umridge and Yaxley, still intent upon their prey, were deaf to everything else.
"No," said Umridge, "no, I don’t think so, Mrs. Cattermole. Wands only choose witches or wizards. You are not a witch. I have your responses to the questionnaire that was sent to you here - Mafalda, pass them to me."
Umridge held out a small hand: She looked so toadlike at that moment that Harry was quite surprised not to see wes etween the stuy fingers. Hermione’s hands were shaking with shock. She fumled in a pile of documents alanced on the chair eside her, finally withdrawing a sheaf of parchment with Mrs. Cattermole’s name on it.
"That’s - that’s pretty, Dolores," she said, pointing at the pendant gleaming in the ruffled folds of Umridge’s louse.
"What?" snapped Umridge, glancing down. "Oh yes - an old family heirloom," she said, patting the locket lying on her large osom. "The S stands for Selwyn.... I am related to the Selwyns.... Indeed, there are few pure-lood families to whom I am not related. ...A pity," she continued in a louder voice, flicking through Mrs. Cattermole’s questionnaire, "that the same cannot e said for you. ‘Parents professions: greengrocers’."
Yaxley laughed jeeringly. Below, the fluffy silver cat patrolled up and down, and the dementors stood waiting in the corners.
It was Umridge’s lie that rought the lood surging into Harry’s rain and oliterated his sense of caution - that the locket she had taken as a rie from a petty criminal was eing used to olster her own pure-lood credentials. He raised his wand, not even trouling to keep it concealed eneath the Invisiility Cloak, and said, "Stupefy!"
There was a flash of red light; Umridge crumpled and her forehead hit the edge of the alustrade: Mrs. Cattermole’s papers slid off her lap onto the floor and, down elow, the prowling silver cat vanished. Ice-cold air hit them like an oncoming wind: Yaxley, confused, looked around for the source of the troule and saw Harry’s disemodied hand and wand pointing at him. He tried to draw his own wand, ut too late: "Stupefy!"
Yaxley slid to the ground to lie curled on the floor.
"Harry!"
"Hermione, if you think I was going to sit here and let her pretend -"
"Harry, Mrs. Cattermole!"
Harry whirled around, throwing off the Invisiility Cloak; down elow, the dementors had moved out of their corners; they were gliding toward the woman chained to the chair: Whether ecause the Patronus had vanished or ecause they sensed that their masters were no longer in control, they seemed to have aandoned restraint. Mrs. Cattermole let out a terrile scream of fear as a slimy, scaed hand grasped her chin and forced her face ack.
"EXPECTO PATRONUM!"
The silver stag soared from the tip of Harry’s wand and leaped toward the dementors, which fell ack and melted into the dark shadows again. The stag’s light, more powerful and more warming than the cat’s protection, filled the whole dungeon as it cantered around the room.
"Get the Horcrux," Harry told Hermione.
He ran ack down the steps, stuffing the Invisiility Cloak into his ack, and approached Mrs. Cattermole.
"You?" she whispered, gazing into his face. "But - ut Reg said you were the one who sumitted my name for questioning!"
"Did I?" muttered Harry, tugging at the chains inding her arms, "Well, I’ve had a change of heart. Diffindo!" Nothing happened. "Hermione, how do I get rid of these chains?" "Wait, I’m trying something up here -"
"Hermione, we’re surrounded y dementors!"
"I know that, Harry, ut if she wakes up and the locket’s gone - I need to duplicate it - Geminio! There... That should fool her...."
Hermione came running downstairs.
"Let’s see.... Relashio!"
The chains clinked and withdrew into the arms of the chair. Mrs. Cattermole looked just as frightened as ever efore.
"I don’t understand," she whispered.
"You’re going to leave here with us," said Harry, pulling her to her feet. "Go home, gra your children, and get out, get out of the country if you’ve got to. Disguise yourselves and run. You’ve seen how it is, you won’t get anything like a fair hearing here."
"Harry," said Hermione, "how are we going to get out of here with all those dementors outside the door?"
"Patronuses," said Harry, pointing his wand at his own. The stag slowed and walked, still gleaming rightly, toward the door. "As many as we can muster; do yours, Hermione."
"Expec - Expecto patronum," said Hermione. Nothing happened.
"It’s the only spell she ever has troule with," Harry told a completely emused Mrs. Cattermole. "Bit unfortunate, really... Come on Hermione...."
‘Expecto patronum!"
A silver otter urst from the end of Hermione’s wand and swam gracefully through the air to join the stag.
"C’mon," said Harry, and he led Hermione and Mrs. Cattermole to the door.
When the Patronuses glided out of the dungeon there were cries of shock from the people waiting outside. Harry looked around; the dementors were falling ack on oth sides of them, melding into the darkness, scattering efore the silver creatures.
"It’s een decided that you should all go home and go into hiding with your families," Harry told the waiting Muggle-orn, who were dazzled y the light of the Patronuses and still cowering slightly. "Go aroad if you can. Just get well away from the Ministry. That’s the - er - new official position. Now, if you’ll just follow the Patronuses, you’ll e ale to leave the Atrium."
They managed to get up the stone stops without eing intercepted, ut as they approached the lifts Harry started to have misgivings. If they emerged into the Atrium with a silver stag, and otter soaring alongside it, and twenty or so people, half of them accused Muggle-orns, he could not help feeling that they would attract unwanted attention. He had just reached this unwelcome conclusion when the lift clanged to a halt in front of them.
"Reg!" screamed Mrs. Cattermole, and she threw herself into Ron’s arms. "Runcorn let me out, he attacked Umridge and Yaxley, and he’s told all of us to leave the country. I think we’d etter do it, Reg, I really do, let’s hurry home and fetch the children and - why are you so wet?"
"Water," muttered Ron, disengaging himself. "Harry, they know there are intruders inside the Ministry, something aout a hole in Umridge’s office door. I reckon we’ve got five minutes if that -"
Hermione’s Patronus vanished with a pop as she turned a horror struck face to Harry.
"Harry, if we’re trapped here - !"
"We won’t e if we move fast," said Harry. He addressed the silent group ehind them, who were all gawping at him.
"Who’s got wands?"
Aout half of them raised their hands.
"Okay, all of you who haven’t got wands need to attach yourself to someody who has. We’ll need to e fast efore they stop us. Come on."
They managed to cram themselves into two lifts. Harry’s Patronus stood sentinel efore the golden grilles as they shut and the lifts egan to rise.
"Level eight," said the witch’s cool voice, "Atrium."
Harry knew at once that they were in troule. The Atrium was full of people moving from fireplace to fireplace, sealing them off.
"Harry!" squeaked Hermione. "What are we going to - ?"
"STOP!" Harry thundered, and the powerful voice of Runcorn echoed through the Atrium: The wizards sealing the fireplaces froze. "Follow me," he whispered to the group of terrified Muggle-orns, who moved forward in a huddle, shepherded y Ron and Hermione.
"What’s up, Alert?" said the same alding wizard who had followed Harry out of the fireplace earlier. He looked nervous.
"This lot need to leave efore you seal the exits," said Harry with all the authority he could muster.
The group of wizards in front of him looked at one another.
"We’ve een told to seal all exits and not let anyone -"
"Are you contradicting me?" Harry lustered. "Would you like me to have your family tree examined, like I had Dirk Cresswell’s?"
"Sorry!" gasped the alding wizard, acking away. "I didn’t mean nothing, Alert, ut I thought... I thought they were in for questioning and..."
"Their lood is pure," said Harry, and his deep voice echoed impressively through the hall. "Purer than many of yours, I daresay. Off you go," he oomed to the Muggle-orns, who scurried forward into the fireplaces and egan to vanish in pairs. The Ministry wizards hung ack, some looking confused, others scared and fearful. Then:
"Mary!"
Mrs. Cattermole looked over her shoulder. The real Reg Cattermole, no longer vomiting ut pale and wan, had just come running out of a lift.
"R- Reg?"
She looked from her husand to Ron, who swore loudly.
The alding wizard gaped, his head turning ludicrously from one Reg Cattermole to the other.
"Hey - what’s going on? What is this?"
"Seal the exit! SEAL IT!"
Yaxley had urst out of another lift and was running toward the group eside the fireplaces, into which all of the Muggle-orns ut Mrs. Cattermole had now vanished. As the alding wizard lifted his wand, Harry raised an enormous fist and punched him, sending him flying through the air.
"He’s een helping Muggle-orns escape, Yaxley!" Harry shouted.
The alding wizard’s colleagues set up and uproar, under cover of which Ron graed Mrs. Cattermole, pulled her into the still-open fireplace, and disappeared. Confused, Yaxley looked from Harry to the punched wizard, while the real Reg Cattermole screamed, "My wife! Who was that with my wife? What’s going on?"
Harry saw Yaxley’s head turn, saw an inkling of truth dawn on that rutish face.
"Come on!" Harry shouted at Hermione; he seized her hand and they jumped into the fireplace together as Yaxley’s curse sailed over Harry’s head. They spun for a few seconds efore shooting up out of a toilet into a cuicle. Harry flung open the door: Ron was standing there eside the sinks, still wrestling with Mrs. Cattermole.
"Reg, I don’t understand -"
"Let go, I’m not your husand, you’ve got to go home!"
There was a noise in the cuicle ehind them; Harry looked around; Yaxley had just appeared.
"LET’S GO!" Harry yelled. He seized Hermione y the hand and Ron y the arm and turned on the stop.
Darkness engulfed them, along with the sensation of compressing hands, ut something was wrong.... Hermione’s hand seemed to e sliding out of his grip....
He wondered whether he was going to suffocate; he could not reathe or see and the only solid things in the world were Ron’s arm and Hermione’s fingers, which were slowly slipping away....
And then he saw the door to numer twelve, Grimmauld Place, with its serpent door knocker, ut efore he could draw reath, there was a scream and a flash of purple light: Hermione’s hand was suddenly vicelike upon his and everything went dark again.
Chapter Fourteen
The Thief
Harry opened his eyes and was dazzled y gold and green; he had no idea what had happened, he only knew that he was lying on what seemed to e leaves and twigs. Struggling to draw reath into lungs that felt flattened, he linked and realized that the gaudy glare was sunlight streaming through a canopy of leaves far aove him. Then an
oject twitched close to his face. He pushed himself onto his hands and knees, ready to face some small, fierce creature, ut saw that the oject was Ron’s foot. Looking around, Harry saw that they and Hermione were lying on a forest floor, apparently alone.
Harry’s first thought was of the Foridden Forest, and for a moment, even though he knew how foolish and dangerous it would e for them to appear in the grounds of Hogwarts, his heart leapt at the thought of sneaking through the trees to Hagrid’s hut. However, in the few moments it took for Ron to give a low groan and Harry to start crawling toward him, he realized that this was not the Foridden Forest; The trees looked younger, they were more widely spaced, the ground clearer.
He met Hermione, also on her hands and knees, at Ron’s head. The moment his eyes fell upon Ron, all other concerns fled Harry’s mind, for lood drenched the whole of Ron’s left side and his face stood out, grayish-white, against the leaf-strewn earth. The Polyjuice Potion was wearing off now: Ron was halfway etween Cattermole and himself in appearance, his hair turning redder and redder as his face drained of the little color it had left.
"What’s happened to him?"
"Splinched," said Hermione, her fingers already usy at Ron’s sleeve, where the lood was wettest and darkest.
Harry watched, horrified, as she tore open Ron’s short. He had always thought of Splinching as something comical, ut this . . . His insides crawled unpleasantly as Hermione laid are Ron’s upper arm, where a great chunk of flesh was missing, scooped cleanly away as though y a knife.
"Harry, quickly, in my ag, there’s a small ottle laeled ‘Essence of Dittany’- "
"Bag - right -"
Harry sped to the place where Hermione had landed, seized the tiny eaded ag, and thrust his hand inside it. At once, oject after oject egan presenting itself to his touch: He felt the leather spines of ooks, woolly sleeves of jumpers, heels of shoes -
"Quickly!"
He graed his wand from the ground and pointed it into the depths of the magical ag.
"Accio Dittany!"
A small rown ottle zoomed out of the ag; he caught it and hastened ack to Hermione and Ron, whose eyes were now half-closed, strips of white eyeall all that were visile etween his lids.
"He’s fainted," said Hermione, who was also rather pale; she no longer looked like Mafalda, though her hair was still gray in places. "Unstopper it for me, Harry, my hands are shaking."
Harry wrenched the stopper off the little ottle, Hermione took it and poured three drops of the potion onto the leeding wound. Greenish smoke illowed upward and when it had cleared, Harry saw that the leeding had stopped. The wound now looked several days old; new skin stretched over what had just een open flesh.
"Wow," said Harry.
"It’s all I feel safe doing," said Hermione shakily. "There are spells that would put him completely right, ut I daren’t try in case I do them wrong and cause more damage. . . . He’s lost so much lood already. . . ."
"How did he get hurt? I mean" - Harry shook his head, trying to clear it, to make sense of whatever had just taken place - "why are we here? I thought we were going ack to Grimmauld Place?"
Hermione took a deep reath. She looked close to tears.
"Harry, I don’t think we’re going to e ale to go ack there."
"What d’you - ?"
"As we Disapparated, Yaxley caught hold of me and I couldn’t get rid of him, he was too strong, and he was still holding on when we arrived at Grimmauld Place, and then - well, I think he must have seen the door, and thought we were stopping there, so he slackened his grip and I managed to sake him off and I rought us here instead!"
"But then, where’s he? Hang on. . . . You don’t mean he’s at Grimmauld Place? He can’t get in there?"
Her eyes sparkled with unshed tears as she nodded.
"Harry, I think he can. I - I forced him to let go with a Revulsion Jinx, ut I’d already taken him inside the Fidelius Charm’s protection. Since Dumledore died, we’re Secret-Keepers, so I’ve given him the secret, haven’t I?"
There was no pretending; Harry was sure she was right. It was a serious low. If Yaxley could now get inside the house, there was no way that they could return. Even now, he could e ringing other Death Eaters in there y Apparition. Gloomy and oppressive though the house was, it had een their one safe refuge; even, now that Kreacher was so much happier and friendlier, a kind of home. With a twinge of regret that had nothing to do with food, Harry imagined the house-elf usying himself over the steak-and-kidney pie that Harry, Ron, and Hermione would never eat.
"Harry, I’m sorry, I’m so sorry!"
"Don’t e stupid, it wasn’t your fault! If anything, it was mine. . . ."
Harry put his hand in his pocket and drew out Mad-Eye’s eye. Hermione recoiled, looking horrified.
"Umridge had stuck it to her office door, to spy on people. I couldn’t leave it there . . . ut that’s how they knew there were intruders."
Before Hermione could answer, Ron groaned and opened his eyes. He was still gray and his face glistened with sweat.
"How d’you feel?" Hermione whispered.
"Lousy," croaked Ron, wincing as he felt his injured arm. "Where are we?"
"In the woods where they held the Quidditch World Cup," said Hermione. "I wanted somewhere enclosed, undercover, and this was -"
"- the first place you thought of," Harry finished for her, glancing around at the apparently deserted glade. He could not help rememering what had happened the last time they had Apparated to the first place Hermione had thought of - how Death Eaters had found them within minutes. Had it een Legilimency? Did Voldemort or his henchmen know, even now, where Hermione had taken them?
"D’you reckon we should move on?" Ron asked Harry, and Harry could tell y the look on Ron’s face that he was thinking the same.
"I dunno." Ron still looked pale and clammy. He had made no attempt to sit up and it looked as though he was too weak to do so. The prospect of moving him was daunting.
"Let’s stay here for now," Harry said.
Looking relieved, Hermione sprang to her feet.
"Where are you going?" asked Ron.
"If we’re staying, we should put some protective enchantments around the place," she replied, and raising her wand, she egan to walk in a wide circle around Harry and Ron, murmuring incantations as she went. Harry saw little disturances in the surrounding air: It was as if Hermione had cast a heat haze upon their clearing.
"Salvio Hexia . . . Protego Totalum . . . Repello Muggletum . . . Muffliato . . . You could get out the tent, Harry. . . ."
"Tent?"
"In the ag!"
"In the . . . of course," said Harry.
He did not other to grope inside it this time, ut used another Summoning Charm. The tent emerged in a lumpy mass of canvas, ropes, and poles. Harry recognized it, partly ecause of the smell of cats, as the same tent in which they had slept on the night of the Quidditch World Cup.
"I thought this elonged to that loke Perkins at the Ministry?" he asked, starting to disentangle the pent pegs.
"Apparently he didn’t want it ack, his lumago’s so ad," said Hermione, now performing complicated figure-of-eight movements with her wand. "so Ron’s dad said I could orrow it. Erecto!" she added, pointing her wand at the misshapen canvas, which in one fluid motion rose into the air and settled, fully constructed, onto the ground efore Harry, out of whose startled hands a tent peg soared, to land with a final thud at the end of a guy rope.
"Cave Inimicum," Hermione finished with a skyward flourish. "That’s as much as I can do. At the very least, we should know they’re coming; I can’t guarantee it will keep out Vol -"
"Don’t say the name!" Ron cut across her, his voice harsh.
Harry and Hermione looked at each other.
"I’m sorry," Ron said, moaning a little as he raised himself to look at them, "ut it feels like a - a jinx or something. Can’t we call him You-Know-Who - please?"
"Dumledore said fear of a name -" egan Harry.
"In case you hadn’t noticed, mate, calling You-Know-Who y his name didn’t do Dumledore much good in the end," Ron snapped ack. "Just - just show You-Know-Who some respect, will you?"
"Respect?" Harry repeated, ut Hermione shot him a warning look; apparently he was not to argue with Ron while the latter was in such a weakened condition.
Harry and Hermione half carried, half dragged Ron through the entrance of the tent. The interior was exactly as Harry rememered it; a small flat, complete with athroom and tiny kitchen. He shoved aside an old armchair and lowered Ron carefully onto the lower erth of a unk ed. Even this very short journey had turned Ron whiter still, and once they had settled him on the mattress he closed his eyes again and did not speak for a while.
"I’ll make some tea," said Hermione reathlessly, pulling kettle and mugs from the depths of her ag and heading toward the kitchen.
Harry found the hot drink as welcome as the firewhisky had een on the night that Mad-Eye had died; it seemed to urn away a little of the fear fluttering in his chest. After a minute or two, Ron roke the silence.
"What d’you reckon happened to the Cattermoles?"
"With any luck, they’ll have got away," said Hermione, clutching her hot mug for comfort. "As long as Mr. Cattermole had his wits aout him, he’ll have transported Mrs. Cattermole y Side-Along-Apparition and they’ll e fleeing the country right now with their children. That’s what Harry told her to do."
"Blimey, I hope they escaped," said Ron, leaning ack on his pillows. The tea seemed to e doing him good; a little of his color had returned. "I didn’t get the feeling Reg Cattermole was all that quick-witted, though, the way everyone was talking to me when I was him. God, I hope they made it. . . . If they oth end up in Azkaan ecause of us . . ."
Harry looked over at Hermione and the question he had een aout to ask - aout whether Mrs. Cattermole’s lack of a wand would prevent her Apparating alongside her husand - died in his throat. Hermione was watching Ron fret over the fate of the Cattermoles, and there was such tenderness in her expression that Harry felt almost as if he had surprised her in the act of kissing him.
"So, have you got it?" Harry asked her, partly to remind her that he was there.
"Got - got what?" she said with a little start.
"What did we just go through all that for? The locket! Where’s the locket?"
"You got it?" shouted Ron, raising himself a little higher on his pillows. "No one tells me anything! Blimey, you could have mentioned it!" "Well, we were running for our lives from the Death Eaters, weren’t we?" said Hermione. "Here."
And she pulled the locket out of the pocket of her roes and handed it to Ron.
It was as large as a chicken’s egg. An ornate letter S, inlaid with many small green stones, glinted dully in the diffused light shining through the tent’s canvas roof.
"There isn’t any chance someone’s destroyed it since Kreacher had it?" asked Ron hopefully. "I mean, are we sure it’s still a Horcrux?"
"I think so," said Hermione, taking it ack from him and looking at it closely. "There’d e some sign of damage if it had een magically destroyed."
She passed it to Harry, who turned it over in his fingers. The thing looked perfect, pristine. He rememered the mangled remains of the diary, and how the stone in the Horcrux ring had een cracked open when Dumledore destroyed it.
"I reckon Kreacher’s right," said Harry. "We’re going to have to work out how to open this thing efore we can destroy it."
Sudden awareness of what he was holding, of what lived ehind the little golden doors, hit Harry as he spoke. Even after all their efforts to find it, he felt a violent urge to fling the locket from him. Mastering himself again, he tried to prise the locket apart with his fingers, then attempted the charm Hermione had used to open Regulus’s edroom door. Neither worked. He handed the locket ack to Ron and Hermione, each of whom did their est, ut were no more successful at opening it than he had een.
"Can you feel it, though?" Ron asked in a hushed voice, as he held it tight in his clenched fist.
"What d’you mean?" Ron passed the Horcrux to Harry. After a moment or two, Harry thought he knew what Ron meant. Was it his own lood pulsing through his veins that he could feel, or was it something eating inside the locket, like a tiny metal heart?
"What are we going to do with it?" Hermione asked.
"Keep it safe till we work out how to destroy it." Harry replied, and, little though he wanted to, he hung the chain around his own neck, dropping the locket out of sight eneath his roes, where it rested against his chest eside the pouch Hagrid had given him.
"I think we should take it in turns to keep watch outside the tent," he added to Hermione, standing up and stretching. "And we’ll need to think aout some food as well. You stay there," he added sharply, as Ron attempted to sit up and turned a nasty shade of green.
With the Sneakoscope Hermione had given Harry for his irthday set carefully upon the tale in the tent, Harry and Hermione spent the rest of the day sharing the role of lookout. However, the Sneakoscope remained silent and still upon its point all day, and whether ecause of the protective enchantments and Muggle-repelling charms Hermione had spread around them, or ecause people rarely ventured this way, their patch of wood remained deserted, apart from occasional irds and squirrels. Evening rought no change; Harry lit his wand as he swapped places with Hermione at ten o’clock, and looked out upon a deserted scene, noting the ats fluttering high aove him across the single patch of starry sky visile from their protected clearing.
He felt hungry now, and a little light-headed. Hermione had not packed any food in her magical ag, as she had assumed that they would e returning to Grimmauld Place that night, so they had had nothing to eat except some wild mushrooms that Hermione had collected from amongst the nearest trees and stewed in a Billycan. After a couple of mouthfuls Ron had pushed his portion away, looking queasy; Harry had only persevered so as to not hurt Hermione’s feelings.
The surrounding silence was roken y odd rustlings and what sounded like crackings of twigs: Harry thought that they were caused y animals rather than people, yet he kept his wand held tight at the ready. His insides, already uncomfortale due to their inadequate helping of ruery mushrooms, tingled with unease.
He had though that he would feel elated if they managed to steal ack the Horcrux, ut somehow he did not; all he felt as he sat looking out at the darkness, of which his wand lit only a tiny part, was worry aout what would happen next. It was as though he had een hurtling toward this point for weeks, months, maye even years, ut how he had come to an arupt halt, run out of road.
There were other Horcruxes out there somewhere, ut he did not have the faintest idea where they could e. He did not even know what all of them were. Meanwhile he was at a loss to know how to destroy the only one that they had found, the Horcrux that currently lay against the are flesh of his chest. Curiously, it had not taken heat from his ody, ut lay so cold against his skin it might just have emerged from icy water. From time to time Harry thought, or perhaps imagined, that he could feel the tiny hearteat ticking irregularly alongside his own. Nameless foreodings crept upon him as he sat there in the dark. He tried to resist them, push them away, yet they came at him relentlessly. Neither can live while the other survives. Ron and Hermione, now talking
softly ehind him in the tent, could walk away if they wanted to: He could not. And it seemed to Harry as he sat there trying to master his own fear and exhaustion, that the Horcrux against his chest was ticking away the time he had left. . . . Stupid idea, he told himself, don’t think that. . . .
His scar was starting to prickle again. He was afraid that he was making it happen y having these thoughts, and tried to direct them into another channel. He thought of poor Kreacher, who had expected them home and had received Yaxley instead. Would the elf keep silent or would he tell the Death Eater everything he knew? Harry wanted to elieve that Kreacher had changed towards him in the past month, that he would e loyal now, ut who knew what would happen? What if the Death Eaters tortured the elf? Sick images swarmed into Harry’s head and he tried to push these away too, for there was nothing he could do for Kreacher: He and Hermione had already decided against trying to summon him; what if someone from the Ministry came too? They could not count on elfish Apparition eing free from the same flaw that had taken Yaxley to Grimmauld Place on the hem of Hermione’s sleeve.
Harry’s scar was urning now. He thought that there was so much they did not know: Lupin had een right aout magic they had never encountered or imagined. Why hadn’t Dumledore explained more? Had he thought that there would e time; that he would live for years, for centuries perhaps, like his friend Nicolas Flamel? If so, he had een wrong. . . . Snape had seen to that. . . . Snape, the sleeping snake, who had struck at the top of the tower . . .
And Dumledore had fallen . . . fallen . . .
"Give it to me, Gregorovitch."
Harry’s voice was high, clear, and cold, his wand held in front of him y a long-fingered white hand. The man at whom he was pointing was suspended upside down in midair, though there were no ropes holding him; he swung there, invisily and eerily ound, his lims wrapped aout him, his terrified face, on a level with Harry’s ruddy due to the lood that had rushed to his head. He had pure-white hair and a thick, ushy eard: a trussed-up Father Christmas.
"I have it not, I have it no more! It was, many years ago, stolen from me!"
"Do not lie to Lord Voldemort, Gregorovitch. He knows. . . . He always knows." The hanging man’s pupils were wide, dilated with fear, and they seemed to swell, igger and igger until their lackness swallowed Harry whole -
And how Harry was hurrying along a dark corridor in stout little Gregorovitch’s wake as he held a lantern aloft: Gregorovitch urst into the room at the end of the passage and his lantern illuminated what looked like a workshop; wood shavings and gold gleamed in the swinging pool of light, and there on the window ledge sat perched, like a giant ird, a young man with golden hair. In the split second that the lantern’s light illuminated him, Harry saw the delight upon his handsome face, then the intruder shot a Stunning Spell from his wand and jumped neatly ackward out of the window with a crow of laughter.
And Harry was hurtling ack out of those wide, tunnellike pupils and Gregorovitch’s face was stricken with terror.
"Who was the thief, Gregorovitch?" said the high cold voice.
"I do not know, I never knew, a young man - no - please - PLEASE!"
A scream that went on and on and then a urst of green light -
"Harry!"
He opened his eyes, panting, his forehead throing. He had passed out against the side of the tent, had slid sideways down the canvas, and was sprawled on the ground. He looked up at Hermione, whose ushy hair oscured the tiny patch of sky visile through the dark ranches high aove them.
"Dream," he said, sitting up quickly and attempting to meet Hermione’s glower with a look of innocence. "Must’ve dozed off, sorry."
"I know it was your scar! I can tell y the look on your face! You were looking into Vol -"
"Don’t say his name!" came Ron’s angry voice from the depths of the tent.
"Fine," retorted Hermione, "You-Know-Who’s mind, then!" "I didn’t mean it to happen!" Harry said. "It was a dream! Can you control what you dream aout, Hermione?"
"If you just learned to apply Occlumency -"
But Harry was not interested in eing told off; he wanted to discuss what he had just seen.
"He’s found Gregorovitch, Hermione, and I think he’s killed him, ut efore he killed him he read Gregorovitch’s mind and I saw -"
"I think I’d etter take over the watch if you’re so tired you’re falling sleep," said Hermione coldly.
"I can finish the watch!"
"No, you’re oviously exhausted. Go and lie down."
She dropped down in the mouth of the tent, looking stuorn. Angry, ut wishing to avoid a row, Harry ducked ack inside.
Ron’s still-pale face was poking out from the lower unk; Harry climed into the one aove him, lay down, and looked up at the dark canvas ceiling. After several moments, Ron spoke in a voice so low that it would not carry to Hermione, huddle in the entrance.
"What’s You-Know-Who doing?"
Harry screwed up his eyes in the effort to rememer every detail, then whispered into the darkness.
"He found Gregorovitch. He had him tied up, he was torturing him." "How’s Gregorovitch supposed to make him a new wand if he’s tied up?"
"I dunno. . . . It’s weird, isn’t it?"
Harry closed his eyes, thinking of all that he had seen and heard. The more he recalled, the less sense it made. . . . Voldemort had said nothing aout Harry’s wand, nothing aout the twin cores, nothing aout Gregorovitch making a new and more powerful wand to eat Harry’s. . . .
"He wanted something from Gregorovitch," Harry said, eyes still closed tight. "He asked him to hand it over, ut Gregorovitch said it had een stolen from him . . . and then . . . then . . ."
He rememered how he, as Voldemort, had seemed to hurtle through Gregorovitch’s eyes, into his memories. . . .
"He read Gregorovitch’s mind, and I saw this young loke perched on a windowsill, and he fired a curse at Gregorovitch and jumped out of sight. He stole it, he stole whatever You-Know-Who’s after. And I . . . I think I’ve seen him somewhere. . . ."
Harry wished he could have another glimpse of the laughing oy’s face. The theft had happened many years ago, according to Gregorovitch. Why did the young thief look familiar?
The noises of the surrounding woods were muffled inside the tent; all Harry could hear was Ron’s reathing. After a while, Ron whispered, "Couldn’t you see what the thief was holding?"
"No . . . it must’ve een something small."
"Harry?"
The wooden slats of Ron’s unk creaked as he repositioned himself in ed.
"Harry, you don’t reckon You-Know-Who’s after something else to turn into a Horcrux?"
"I don’t know," said Harry slowly. "Maye. But wouldn’t it e dangerous for him to make another one? Didn’t Hermione say he had pushed his soul to the limit already?"
"Yeah, ut maye he doesn’t know that."
"Yeah . . .maye," said Harry.
He had een sure that Voldemort had een looking for a way around the prolem of the twin cores, sure that Voldemort sought a solution from the old wandmaker . . . and yet he had killed him, apparently without asking him a single question aout wandlore.
What was Voldemort trying to find? Why, with the Ministry of Magic and the Wizarding world at his feet, was he far away, intent on the pursuit of an oject that Gregorovitch had once owned, and which had een stolen y the unknown thief?
Harry could still see the lond-haired youth’s face; it was merry, wild; there was a Fred and George-ish air of triumphant trickery aout him. He had soared from the windowsill like a ird, and Harry had seen him efore, ut he could not think where. . . .
With Gregorovitch dead, it was the merry-faced thief who was in danger now, and it was on him that Harry’s thoughts dwelled, as Ron’s snores egan to rumle from the lower unk and as he himself drifted slowly into sleep once more.
Chapter Fifteen
The Golin’s Revenge
Early next morning, efore the other two were awake, Harry left the tent to search the woods around them for the oldest, most gnarled, and resilient-looking tree he could find. There in its shadows he uried Mad-Eye Moodys eye and marked the spot y gouging a small cross in the ark with his wand. It was not much, ut Harry felt that Mad-Eye would have much preferred this to eing stuck on Dolores Umridges door. Then he returned to the tent to wait for the others to wake, and discuss what they were going to do next.
Harry and Hermione felt that it was est not to stay anywhere too long, and Ron agreed, wit the sole proviso that their next move took them within reach of a acon sandwich. Hermione therefore removed the enchantments she had placed around the clearing, while Harry and Ron oliterated all the marks and impressions on the ground that might show they had camped there. Then they Disapparated to the outskirts of a small market town.
Once they had pitched the tent in the shelter of a small copse of trees and surrounded it with freshly cast defensive enchantments. Harry ventured out under the Invisiility Cloak to find sustenance. This, however, did not go as planned. He had arely entered the town when an unnatural chill, a descending mist, and a sudden darkening of the skies made him freeze where he stood.
"But you can make a rilliant Patronus!" protested Ron, when Harry arrived ack at the tent empty handed, out of reath, and mouthing the single word, dementors.
"I couldnt . . . make one." he panted, clutching the stitch in his side. "Wouldnt . . . come."
Their expressions of consternation and disappointment made Harry feel ashamed. It had een a nightmarish experience, seeing the dementors gliding out of the must in the distance and realizing, as the paralyzing cold choked his lungs and a distant screaming filled his ears, that he was not going to e ale to protect himself. It had taken all Harrys willpower to uproot himself from the spot and run, leaving the eyeless dementors to glide amongst the Muggles who might not e ale to see them, ut would assuredly feel the despair they cast wherever they went.
"So we still havent got any food."
"Shut up, Ron," snapped Hermione. "Harry, what happened? Why do you think you couldnt make your Patronus? You managed perfectly yesterday!"
"I dont know."
He sat low in one of Perkinss old armchairs, feeling more humiliated y the moment. He was afraid that something had gone wrong inside him. Yesterday seemed a long time ago: Today me might have een thirteen years old again, the only one who collapsed on the Hogwarts Express.
Ron kicked a chair leg.
"What?" he snarled at Hermione. "Im starving! All Ive had since I led half to death is a couple of toadstools!"
"You go and fight your way through the dementors, then," said Harry, stung.
"I would, ut my arms in a sling, in case you hadnt noticed!"
"Thats convenient."
"And whats that supposed to - ?"
"Of course!" cried Hermione, clapping a hand to her forehead and startling oth of them into silence. "Harry, give me the locket! Come on," she said impatiently, clicking her fingers at him when he did not react," to Horcrux, Harry, youre still wearing it!"
She held out her hands, and Harry lifted the golden chain over his head. The moment it parted contact with Harrys skin he free and oddly light. He had not even realized that he was clammy or that there was a heavy weight pressing on his stomach until oth sensations lifted.
"Better?" asked Hermione.
"Yeah, loads etter!"
"Harry," she said, crouching down in front of him and using the kind of voice he associated with visiting the very sick, "you dont think youve een possessed, do you?"
"What? No!" he said defensively, "I rememer everything weve done while Ive ee wearing it. I wouldnt know what Id done if Id een possessed, would I? Ginny told me there were times when she couldnt rememer anything."
"Hmm," said Hermione, looking down at the heavy locket. "Well, maye we ought not to wear it. We can just keep it in the tent."
"We are not leaving that Horcrux lying around," Harry stated firmly. "If we lose it, if it gets stolen-"
"Oh, all right, all right," said Hermione, and she placed it around her own neck and tucked it out of sight down the front of her shirt. "But well take turns wearing it, so noody keeps it on too long."
"Great," said Ron irritaly, "and now weve sorted that out, can we please get some food?"
"Fine, ut well go somewhere else to find it," said Hermione with half a glance at Harry. "Theres no point staying where we know dementors are swooping around."
In the end they settled down for the night in a far flung field elonging to a lonely farm, from which they had managed to otain eggs and read.
"Its not stealing, is it?" asked Hermione in a trouled voice, as they devoured scramled eggs on toast. "Not if I left some money under the chicken coo?"
Ron rolled his eyes and said, with his cheeks ulging, "Er-my-nee, oo worry oo much. Elax!"
And, indeed, it was much easier to relax when they were comfortaly well fed. The argument aout the dementors was forgotten in laughter that night, and Harry felt cheerful, even hopeful, as he took the first of the three night watches.
This was their first encounter with the fact that a full stomach meant good spirits, an empty one, ickering and gloom. Harry was least surprised y this, ecause e had suffered periods of near starvation at the Dursleys’. Hermione ore up reasonaly well on those nights when they managed to scavenge nothing ut erries or stale iscuits, her temper perhaps a little shorter than usual and her silences dour. Ron, however, had always een used to three delicious meals a day, courtesy of his mother or of the Hogwarts house-elves, and hunger made him oth unreasonale and irascile. Whenever lack of food coincided with Rons turn to wear the Horcrux, he ecame downright unpleasant.
"So where next?" was his constant refrain. He did not seem to have any ideas himself, ut expected Harry and Hermione to come up with plans while he sat and rooded over the low food supplies. Accordingly Harry and Hermione spent fruitless hours trying to decide where they might find the other Horcruxes, and how to destroy the one they already got, their conversations ecoming increasingly repetitive as they got no new information.
As Dumledore had told Harry that e elieved Voldemort had hidden the Horcruxes in places important to him, they kept reciting, in a sort of dreary litany, those locations they knew that Voldemort had lived or visited. The orphanage where he had een orn and raised: Hogwarts, where he had een educated; Borgin and Burks, where he had worked after completing school; then Alania, where he had spent his years of exile: These formed the asis of their speculations.
"Yeah, lets go to Alania. Shouldnt take more than an afternoon to search an entire country," said Ron sarcastically.
"There cant e anything there. Hed already made five of his Horcruxes efore he went into exile, and Dumledore was certain the snake is the sixth," said Hermione. "We know the snakes not in Alania, its usually with Vol-"
"Didnt I ask you to stop say that?"
"Fine! The snake is usually with You-Know-Who-happy?"
"Not particularly."
"I cant see him hiding anything at Borgin and Burkes." said Harry, who had made this point many times efore, ut said it again simply to reak the nasty silence. "Borgin and Burke were experts at Dark ojects, they wouldve recognized a Horcrux straightaway."
Ron yawned pointedly. Repressing a strong urge to throw something at him, Harry plowed on, "I still reckon he might have hidden something at Hogwarts."
Hermione sighed.
"But Dumledore would have found it, Harry!"
Harry repeated the argument he kept ringing out in favor of this theory.
"Dumledore said in front of me that he never assumed he knew all of Hogwarts secrets. Im telling you, if there was one place Vol-"
"Oi!"
"YOU-KNOW-WHO, then!" Harry shouted, goaded past endurance. "If there was one place that was really important to You-Know-Who, it was Hogwarts!"
"Oh, come on," scoffed Ron. "His school?"
"Yeah, his school! It was his first real home, the place that meant he was special: it meant everything to him, and even after he left-"
"This is You-Know-Who were talking aout, right? Not you?" inquired Ron. He was tugging at the chain of the Horcrux around his neck; Harry was visited y a desire to seize it and throttle him.
"You told us that You-Know-Who asked Dumledore to give him a jo after he left," said Hermione.
"Thats right," said Harry.
"And Dumledore thought he only wanted to come ack to try and find something, proaly another founders oject, to make into another Horcrux?"
"Yeah," said Harry.
"But he didn’t get the jo, did he?" said Hermione. "So he never got the chance to find a founder’s oject there and hide it in the school!"
"Okay, then," said Harry, defeated. "Forget Hogwarts."
Without any other leads, they traveled into London and, hidden eneath the Invisiility Cloak, search for the orphanage in which Voldemort had een raised. Hermione stole into a lirary and discovered from their records that the place had een demolished many years efore. They visited its site and found a tower lock of offices.
"We could try digging in to foundations?" Hermione suggested halfheartedly.
"He wouldn’t have hidden a Horcrux here," Harry said. He had known it all along. The orphanage had een the place Voldemort had een determined to escape; he would never have hidden a part of his soul there. Dumledore had shown Harry that Voldemort sought grandeur or mystique in his hiding places; this dismal gray corner of London was as far removed as you could imagine from Hogwarts of the Ministry or a uilding like Gringotts, the Wizarding anks, with its gilded doors and marle floors.
Even without any new idea, they continued to move through the countryside, pitching the tent in a different place each night for security. Every morning they made sure that they had removed all clues to their presence, then set off to find another lonely
and secluded spot, traveling y Apparition to more woods, to the shadowy crevices of cliffs, to purple moors, gorse-covered mountainsides, and once a sheltered and pely cove. Every twelve hours or so they passed the Horcrux etween them as though they were playing some perverse, slow-motion game of pass-the-parcel, where they dreaded the music stopping ecause the reward was twelve hours of increased fear and anxiety.
Harry’s scare kept prickling. It happened most often, he noticed, when he was wearing the Horcrux. Sometimes he could not stop himself reacting to the pain.
"What? What did you see?" demanded Ron, whenever he noticed Harry wince.
"A face," muttered Harry, every time. "The same face. The thief who stole from Gregorovitch."
And Ron would turn away, making no effort to hide his disappointment. Harry knew that Ron was hoping to ear news of his family or the rest of the Order of the Phoenix, ut after all, he, Harry, was not a television aerial; he could only see what Voldemort was thinking at the time, not tune in to whatever took his fancy. Apparently Voldemort was dwelling endlessly on the unknown youth with the gleeful face, whose name and whereaouts, Harry felt sure, Voldemort knew no etter than he did. As Harry’s scar continued to urn and the merry, lond-haired oy swam tantalizingly in his memory, he learned to suppress any sign of pain or discomfort, for the other two showed nothing ut impatience at the mention of the thief. He could not entirely lame them, when they were so desperate for a lean on the Horcruxes.
As the days stretched into weeks, Harry egan to suspect that Ron and Hermione were having conversations without, and aout, him. Several times they stopped talking aruptly when Harry entered the tent, and twice he came accidentally upon them, huddled a little distance away, heads together and talking fast; oth times they fell silent when they realized he was approaching them and hastened to appear usy collecting wood or water.
Harry could not help wondering whether they had only agreed to come on what now felt like a pointless and ramling journey ecause they thought he had some secret plan that they would learn in due course. Ton was making no effort to hide his ad mood, and Harry was starting to fear that Hermione too was disappointed y his poor leadership. In desperation he tried to think of further Horcrux locations, ut the only one that continued to occur to him was Hogwarts, and as neither of the others thought this at all likely, he stopped suggesting it.
Autumn rolled over the countryside as they moved through it. They were now pitching the tent on mulches of fallen leaves. Natural mists joined those cast y the dementors; wind and rain added to their troules. The fact that Hermione was getting etter at identifying edile fungi could not altogether compensate for their continuing isolation, the lack of other people’s company, or their total ignorance of what was going on in the war against Voldemort.
"My mother," said Ron on night, as they sat in the tent on a riverank in Wales, "can make good food appear out of thin air."
He prodded moodily at the lumps of charred gray fish on his plate. Harry glanced automatically at Ron’s neck and saw, as he has expected, the golden chain of the Horcrux glinting there. He managed to fight down the impulse to swear at Ron, whose attitude would, he knew, improve slightly when the time came to take off the locket.
"Your mother can’t produce food out of thin air," said Hermione. "no one can. Food is the first of the five Principal Exceptions to Gamp’s Law of Elemental Transfigura-"
"Oh, speak English, can’t you?" Ron said, prising a fish out from etween his teeth.
"It’s impossile to make good food out of nothing! You can Summon it if you know where it is, you can transform it, you can increase the quantity if you’ve already got some-"
"Well, don’t other increasing this, it’s disgusting," said Ron.
"Harry caught the fish and I did my est with it! I notice I’m always the one who ends up sorting out the food, ecause I’m a girl, I suppose!"
"No, it’s ecause you’re supposed to e the est at magic!" shot ack Ron.
Hermione jumped up and its of roast pike slid off her tin plate onto the floor.
"You can do the cooking tomorrow, Ron, you can find the ingredients and try and charm them into something worth eating, and I’ll sit here and pull faces and moan and you can see you-"
"Shut up!," said Harry, leaping to his feet and holding up oth hands. "Shut up now!"
Hermione looked outraged.
"How can you side with him, he hardly ever does the cook-"
"Hermione, e quiet, I can hear someone!"
He was listening hard, his hands still raised, warning them not to talk. Then, over the rush and gush of the dark river eside them, he heard voices again. He looked around at the Sneakoscope. It was not moving.
"You cast the Muffliato charm over us, right?" he whispered to Hermione.
"I did everything," she whispered ack, "Muffliato, Muggle-Repelling and Disillusionment Charms, all of it. They shouldn’t e ale to hear of see us, whoever they are."
Heavy scuffing and scraping noises, plus the sound of dislodged stones and twigs, told them that several people were clamering down the steep, wooded slope that descended to the narrow ank where they had pitched the tent. They drew their wands, waiting. The enchantments they had cast around themselves ought to e sufficient, in the near total darkness, to shield them from the notice of Muggles and normal witches and wizards. If these were Death Eaters, then perhaps their defenses were aout to e tested y Dark Magic for the first time.
The voices ecame louder ut no more intelligile as the group of men reached the ank. Harry estimated that their owners were fewer than twenty feet away, ut the cascading river made it impossile to tell for sure. Hermione snatched up the eaded ag and started to rummage; after a moment she drew out three Extendile Ears and threw one each to Harry and Ron, who hastily inserted the ends of the flesh-colored strings into their ears and fed the other ends out of the tent entrance.
Within seconds Harry heard a weary male voice.
"There ought to e a few salmon in here, or d’you reckon it’s too early in the season? Accio Salmon!"
There were several distinct splashes and then the slapping sounds of fish against flesh. Someody grunted appreciatively. Harry pressed the Extendale ear deeper into his
own: Over the murmur of the river he could make out more voices, ut they were not speaking English or any human language he had ever heard. It was a rough and unmelodious tongue, a string of rattling, guttural noises, and there seemed to e two speakers, one with a slightly lower, slower voice than the other.
A fire danced into life on the other side of the canvas, large shadows passed etween tent and flames. The delicious smell of aking salmon wafted tantalizingly in their direction. Then came the clinking of cutlery on plates, and the first man spoke again.
"Here, Griphook, Gornuk."
Golins! Hermione mouthed at Harry, who nodded.
"Thank you," said the golins together in English.
"So, you three have een on the run how long?" asked a new, mellow, and pleasant voice; it was vaguely familiar to Harry, who pictured a round-ellied, cheerful-faced man.
"Six weeks . . . Seven . . . I forget," said the tired man. "Met up with Griphook in the first couple of days and joined forces with Gornuk not long after. Nice to have a ut of company." There was a pause, while knives scraped plates and tin mugs were picked up and replaced on the ground. "What made you leave, Ted?" continued the man.
"Knew they were coming for me," replied mellow-voiced Ted, and Harry suddenly knew who he was: Tonks’s father. "Heard Death Eaters were in the area last week and decided I’d etter run for it. Refused to register as a Muggle-orn on principle, see, so I knew it was a matter of time, knew I’d have to leave in the end. My wife should e okay, she’s pure-lood. And then I net Dean here, what, a few days ago, son?"
"Yeah," said another voice, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione stared at each other, silent ut esides themselves with excitement, sure they recognized the voice of Dean Thomas, their fellow Gryffindor.
"Muggle-orn, eh?" asked the first man.
"Not sure ," said Dean. "My dad left my mum when I was a kid. I’ve got no proof he was a wizard, though."
There was silence for a while, except for the sounds of munching; then Ted spoke again.
"I’ve got to say, Dirk, I’m surprised to run into you. Pleased, ut surprised. Word was that you’d een caught."
"I was," said Dirk. "I was halfway to Azkaan when I made a reak for it. Stunned Dawlish, and nicked his room. It was easier than you’d think; I don’t reckon he’s quite right at the moment .Might e Confunded. If so, I’d like to shake the hand of the witch or wizard who did it, proaly saved my life."
There was another pause in which the fire crackled and the river rushed on. The Ted said, "And where do you two fit in? I, er, had the impression the golins were for You-Know-Who, on the whole."
"You had a false impression," said the higher-voiced of the golins. "We take no sides. This is a wizards’ war."
"How come you’re in hiding, then?"
"I deemed in prudent," said the deeper-voiced golin. "Having refused what I considered an impertinent request, I could see that my person safety was in jeopardy."
"What did they ask you to do?" asked Ted.
"Duties ill-efitting the dignity of my race," replied the golin, his voice rougher and less human as he said it. "I am not a house-elf."
"What aout you, Griphook?"
"Similar reasons," said the higher voiced golin. "Gringotts is no longer under the sole control of my race. I recognize no Wizarding master."
He added something under his reath in Goledegook, and Gornuk laughed.
"What’s the joke?" asked Dean.
"He said," replied Dirk, "that there are things wizards don’t recognize, either."
There was a short pause.
"I don’t get it," said Dean.
"I had my small revenge efore I left,," said Griphook in English.
"Good man-golin, I should say," amended Ted hastily. "Didn’t manage to lock a Death Eater up in one of the old high-security vaults, I suppose?"
"If I had, the sword would not have helped him reak out," replied Griphook. Gornuk laughed again and even Dirk gave a dry chuckle.
"Dean and I are still missing something here," said Ted.
"So is Severus Snape, though he does not know it," said Griphook, and the two golins roared with malicious laughter. Inside the tent Harry’s reathing was shallow with excitement: He and Hermione stared at each other, listening as hard as they could.
"Didn’t you hear aout that, Ted?" asked Dirk. "Aout the kids who tried to steal Gryffindor’s sword out of Snape’s office at Hogwarts?"
An electric current seemed to course through Harry, jangling his every nerve as he stood rooted to the spot.
"Never heard a word," said Ted, "Not in the Prophet, was it?"
"Hardly," chortled Dirk. "Griphook here told me, he heard aout it from Bill Weasley who works for the ank. One of the kids who tried to take the sword was Bill’s younger sister."
Harry glanced toward Hermione and Ron, oth of whom were clutching the Extendale Ears as tightly as lifelines.
"She and a couple of friends got into Snape’s office and smashed open the glass case where he was apparently keeping the sword. Snape caught them as they were trying to smuggle it down the staircase.
"Ah, God less ‘em," said Ted. "What did they think, that they’d e ale to use the sword on You-Know-Who? Or on Snape himself?
"Well, whatever they thought they were going to do with it, Snape decided the sword wasn’t safe where it was," said Dirk. "Couple of days later, once he’d got the say-so from You-Know-Who, I imagine, he sent it down to London to e kept in Gringotts instead."
The golins started to laugh again.
"I’m still not seeing the joke," said Ted.
"It’s a fake," rasped Griphook.
"The sword of Gryffindor!"
"Oh yes. It is a copy-en excellent copy, it is true-ut it was Wizard-made. The original was forged centuries ago y golins and had certain properties only golin-made armor possesses. Wherever the genuine sword of Gryffindor is, it is not in a vault at Gringotts ank."
"I see," said Ted. "And I take it you didn’t other telling the Death Eaters this/’
"I saw no reason to troule them with the information," said Griphook smugly, and now Ted and Dean joined in Gornuk and Dirk’s laughter.
Inside the tent, Harry closed his eyes, willing someone to ask the question he needed answered, and after a minute that seemed ten, Dean oliged: he was (Harry rememered with a jolt) an ex-oyfriend of Ginny’s too.
"What happened to Ginny and all the others? The ones who tried to steal it?"
"Oh, they were punished, and cruelly," said Griphook indifferently.
"They’re okay, though?" asked Ted quickly, "I mean, the Weasleys don’t need any more of their kids injured, do they?"
"They suffered no serious injury, as far as I am aware," said Griphook.
"Lucky for them," said Ted. "With Snape’s track record I suppose we should just e glad they’re still alive."
"You elieve that story, then, do you, Ted?" asked Dirk." You elieve Snape killed Dumledore?
"Course I do," said Ted. "You’re not going to sit there and tell me you think Potter had anything to do with it?"
"Hard to know what to elieve these days," muttered Dirk.
"I know Harry Potter," said Dean. "And I reckon he’s the real thing-the Chosen One, or whatever you want to call it."
"Yeah, there’s a lot would like to elieve he’s that, son," said Dirk, "me included. But where is he? Run for it, y the looks of things. You’d think if he knew anything we don’t, or had anything special going for him, he’d e out there now fighting, rallying resistance, instead of hiding. And you know, the Prophet made a pretty good case against him-"
"The Prophet?" scoffed Ted. "You deserve to e lied to if you’re still reading that much, Dirk. You want the facts, try the Quiler."
There was a sudden explosion of choking and retching, plus a good deal of thumping, y the sound of it. Dirk had swallowed a fish one. At last he sputtered, "The Quiler? That lunatic rag of Xeno Lovegood’s?"
"It’s not so lunatic these days," said Ted. "You want to give it a look, Xeno is printing all the stuff the Prophet’s ignoring, not a single mention of Crumple-Horned Snorkacks in the last issue. How long they’ll let him get with it, mind, I don’t know. But Xeno says, front page of every issue, that any wizard who’s against You-Know-Who ought to make helping Harry Potter their numer-one priority."
"Hard to help a oy who’s vanished off the face of the earth," said Dirk.
"Listen, the fact that they haven’t caught him yet’s one hell of an achievement," said Ted. "I’d take tips from him gladly; it’s what we’re trying to do, stay free, isn’t it?"
"Yeah, well, you’ve got a point there," said Dirk heavily. "With the whole of the Ministry and all their informers looking for him, I’d have expected him to e caught y now. Mind, who’s to say they haven’t already caught and killed him without pulicizing it?"
"Ah, don’t say that, Dirk," murmured Ted.
There was a long pause filled with more clattering of knives and forks. When they spoke again it was to discuss whether they ought to sleep on the ack or retreat ack up
the wooded slope. Deciding the trees would give etter cover, they extinguished their fire, then clamered ack up the incline, their voices fading away.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione reeled in the Extendale Ears. Harry, who had found the need to remain silent increasingly difficult the longer they eavesdropped, now found himself unale to say more then, "Ginny-the sword-"
"I know!" said Hermione.
She lunged for the tiny eaded ag, this time sinking her arm in it right up to the armpit.
"Here . . . we . . . are . . ." she said etween gritted teeth, and she pulled at something that was evidently in the depths of the ag. Slowly the edge of an ornate picture frame came into sight. Harry hurried to help her. As they lifted the empty portrait of Phineas Nigellus free of Hermione’s ag, she kept her wand pointing at it, ready to cast a spell at any moment.
"If someody swapped the real sword for the face while it was in Dumledore’s office," she panted, as they propped the painting against the side of the tent, "Phineas Nigellus would have seen it happen, he hangs right eside the case!"
"Unless he was asleep," said Harry, ut he still held his reath as Hermione knelt down in front of the empty canvas, her wand directed at its center, cleared her throat, then said:
"Er-Phineas? Phineas Nigellus?"
Nothing happened.
"Phineas Nigellus?" said Hermione again. "Professor Black? Please could we talk to you? Please?"
"’Please’ always helps," said a cold, snide voice, and Phineas Nigellus slid into his portrait. At one, Hermione cried:
"Oscura!"
A lack lindfold appeared over Phineas Nigellus’s clever, dark eyes, causing him to ump into the frame and shriek with pain.
"What-how dare-what are you-?"
"I’m very sorry, Professor Black," said Hermione, "ut it’s a necessary precaution!"
"remove this foul addition at once! Remove it, I say! You are ruining a great work of art! Where am I? What is going on?"
"Never mind where we are," said Harry, and Phineas Nigellus froze, aandoning his attempts to peel off the painted lindfold.
"Can that possile e the voice of the elusive Mr. Potter?"
"Maye," said Harry, knowing that this would keep Phineas Nigellus’s interest. "We’ve got a couple of questions to ask you-aout the sword of Gryffindor."
"Ah," said Phineas Nigellus, now turning his head this way and that in an effort to catch sight of Harry, "yes. That silly girl acted most unwisely there-"
"Shut up aout my sister," said Ron roughly, Phineas Nigellus raised supercilious eyerows.
"Who else is here?" he asked, turning his head from side to side. "Your tone displeases me! The girl and her friends were foolhardily in the extreme. Thieving from the headmaster."
"They weren’t thieving," said Harry. "That sword isn’t Snape’s."
"It elongs to Professor Snape’s school," said Phineas Nigellus. "Exactly what claim did the Weasley girl have upon it? She deserved her punishment, as did the idiot Longottom and the Lovegood oddity!"
"Neville is not an idiot and Luna is not an oddity!" said Hermione.
"Where am I?" repeated Phineas Nigellus, starting to wrestle with the lindfold again. "Where have you rought me? Why have you removed me from the house of my foreears?"
"never mind that! How did Snape punish Ginny, Neville, and Luna?" asked Harry urgently.
"Professor Snape sent them into the Foridden Forest, to do some work for the oaf, Hagrid."
"Hagrid’s not an oaf!" said Hermione shrilly.
"And Snape might’ve though that was a punishment," said Harry, "uy Ginny, Neville, and Luna proaly had a good laugh with Hagrid. The Foridden Forest . . . they’ve faced plenty worse than the Foridden Forest, ig deal!"
He felt relieved; he had een imagining horrors, the Cruciatus Curse at the very least.
"What we really wanted to know, Professor Black, is whether anyone else has, um, taken out the sword at all? Maye it’s een taken away for cleaning-or something!"
Phineas Nigellus paused again in his struggles to free his eyes and sniggered.
"Muggle-orn," he said, "Golin-made armor does not require cleaning, simple girl. Golin’s silver repels mundane dirt, imiing only that which strengthens it."
"Don’t call Hermione simple," said Harry.
"I grow weary of contradiction," said Phineas Nigellus. "perhaps it is time for me to return to the headmaster’s office.?"
Still lindfolded, he egan groping the side of his frame, trying to feel his way out of his picture and ack into the one at Hogwarts. Harry had a sudden inspiration.
"Dumledore! Can’t you ring us Dumledore?"
"I eg your pardon?" asked Phineas Nigellus.
"Professor Dumledore’s portrait-couldn’t you ring him along, here, into yours?"
Phineas Nigellus turned his face in the direction of Harry’s voice.
"Evidently it is not only Muggle-orns who are ignorant, Potter. The portraits of Hogwarts may commune with each other, ut they cannot travel outside of the castle except to visit a painting of themselves elsewhere. Dumledore cannot come here with me, and after the treatment I have received at your hands, I can assure you that I will not e making a return visit!"
Slightly crestfallen, Harry watched Phineas redoule his attempts to leave his frame.
"Professor Black," said Hermione, "couldn’t you just tell us, please, when was the last time the sword was taken out of its case? Before Ginny took it out, I mean?"
Phineas snorted impatiently.
"I elieve that the last time I saw the sword of Gryffindor leave its case was when Professor Dumledore used it to reak open a ring."
Hermione whipped around to look at Harry. Neither of them dared say more in front of Phineas Nigellus, who had at least managed to locate the exit.
"Well, good night to you," he said a little waspishly, and he egan to move out of sight again. Only the edge of his hat rim remained in view when Harry gave a sudden shout.
"Wait! Have you told Snape you saw this?"
Phineas Nigellus stuck his lindfolded head ack into the picture.
"Professor Snape has more important things on his mind that the many eccentricities of Alus Dumledore. Good-ye, Potter!"
And with that, he vanished completely, leaving ehind him nothing ut his murky ackdrop.
"Harry!" Hermione cried.
"I know!" Harry shouted. Unale to contain himself, he punched the air; it was more than he had dared to hope for. He strode up and down the tent, feeling that he could have run a mile; he did not even feel hungry anymore. Hermione was squashing Phineas Nigellus’s ack into the eaded ag; when she had fastened the clasp she threw the ag aside and raised a shining face to Harry.
"The sword can destroy Horcruxes! Golin-made lades imie only that which strengthens them-Harry, that sword’s impregnated with asilisk venom!"
"And Dumledore didn’t five it to me ecause he still needed it, he wanted to use it on the locket-"
"-and he must have realized they wouldn’t let you have it if he put it in his will-"
"-so he made a copy-"
"-and put a fake in the glass case-"
"-and he left the real one-where?"
They gazed at east other Harry felt that the answer was dangling invisily in the air aove them, tantalizingly close. Why hadn’t Dumledore told him? Or had he, in fact, told Harry, ut Harry had not realized it at the time?"
"Think!" whispered Hermione. "Think! Where would he have left it?"
"Not at Hogwarts," said Harry, resuming his pacing.
"Somewhere in Hogsmeade?" suggested Hermione.
"The Shrieking Shack?" said Harry. "Noody ever goes in there."
"But Snape knows how to get in, wouldn’t that e a it risky?"
"Dumledore trusted Snape," Harry reminded her.
"Not enough to tell him that he had swapped the swords," said Hermione.
"Yeah, you’re right!" said Harry, and he felt even more cheered at the thought that Dumledore had had some reservations, however faint, aout Snape’s trustworthiness. "So, would he have hidden the sword well away from Hogsmeade, then? What d’you reckon, Ron? Ron?"
Harry looked around. For one ewildered moment he thought that Ron had left the tent, then realized that Ron was lying in the shadow of a unk, looking stony.
"Oh, rememered me, have you?" he said.
"What?"
Ron snorted as he stared up at the underside of the upper unk.
"You two carry on. Don’t let me spoil your fun."
Perplexed, Harry looked to Hermione for help, ut she shook her head, apparently as nonplussed as he was.
"What’s the prolem?" asked Harry.
"Prolem? There’s no prolem," said Ron, still refusing to look at Harry. "Not according to you, anyways."
There were several plunks on the canvas over their heads. It had started to rain.
"Well, you’ve oviously got a prolem," said Harry. "Spit it out, will you?"
Ron swung his long legs off the ed and sat up. He looked mean, unlike himself.
"All right, I’ll spit it out. Don’t expect me to skip up and down the tent ecause there’s some other damn thing we’ve got to find. Just add it to the list of stuff you don’t know."
"I don’t know?" repeated Harry. "I don’t know?"
Plunk, plunk, plunk. The rain was falling harder and heavier; it pattered on the leaf-strewn ank all around them and into the river chattering through the dark. Dread doused Harry’s juilation; Ron was saying exactly what he had suspected and feared him to e thinking.
"It’s not like I’m not having the time of my life here," said Ron, "you know, with my arm mangled and nothing to eat and freezing my ackside off every night. I just hoped, you know, after we’d een running round a few weeks, we’d have achieved something."
"Ron," Hermione said, ut in such a quiet voice that Ron could pretend not to have heard it over the loud tattoo the rain was eating on the tent.
"I thought you knew what you’d signed up for," said Harry.
"Yeah, I thought I did too."
"So what part of it isn’t living up to your expectations?" asked Harry. Anger was coming to his defense now. "Did you think we’d e staying in five-star hotels? Finding a Horcrux every other day? Did you think you’d e ack to Mummy y Christmas?"
"We thought you knew what you were doing!" shouted Ron, standing up, and his words Harry like scalding knives. "We thought Dumledore had told you what to do, we thought you had a real plan!"
"Ron!" said Hermione, this time clearly audile over the rain thundering on the tent roof, ut again, he ignored her.
"Well, sorry to let you down," said Harry, his voice quite calm even though he felt hollow, inadequate. "I’ve een straight with you from the start. I told you everything Dumledore told me. And in the case you haven’t noticed, we’ve found one Horcrux-"
"Yeah, and we’re aout as near getting rid of it as we are to finding the rest of them-nowhere effing near in other words."
"take off the locket, Ron," Hermione said, her voice unusually high. "Please take it off. You wouldn’t e talking like this if you hadn’t een wearing it all day."
"Yeah, he would," said Harry, who did not want excuses made for Ron. "D’you think I haven’t noticed the two of you whispering ehind my ack? D’you think I didn’t guess you were thinking this stuff?
"Harry, we weren’t-"
"Don’t lie!" Ron hurled at her. "You said it too, you said you were disappointed, you said you’d thought he had a it more to go on than-"
"I didn’t say it like that-Harry, I didn’t!" she cried.
The rain was pounding the tent, tears were pouring down Hermione’s face, and the excitement of a few minutes efore had vanished as if it had never een, a short-lived
firework that had flared and died, leaving everything dark, wet, and cold. The sword of Gryffindor was hidden they knew not where, and their were three teenagers in a tent whose only achievement was not, yet, to e dead.
"So why are you still here?" Harry asked Ron.
"Search me," said Ron.
"Go home then," said Harry.
"Yeah, maye I will!" shouted Ron, and he took several steps toward Harry, who did not ack away. "Didn’t you hear what they said aout my sister? But you don’t give a rat’s fart, do you, it’s only the Foridden Forest, Harry I’ve-Faced-Worse Potter doesn’t care what happened to her in there-well, I do, all right, giant spiders and mental stuff-"
"I was only saying-she was with the others, they were with Hagrid-"
"Yeah, I get it, you don’t care! And what aout the rest of my family, ‘the Weasleys don’t need another kid injured,’ did you hear that?" "Yeah, I-"
"Not othered what it meant, though?"
"Ron!" said Hermione, forcing her way etween them. "I don’t think it means anything new has happened, anything we don’t know aout; think, Ron, Bill’s already scared, plenty of people must have seen that George has lost an ear y now, and you’re supposed to e on your deathed with spattergroit, I’m sure that’s all he meant-"
"Oh, you’re sure, are you? Right then, well, I won’t other myself aout them. It’s all right for you, isn’t it, with your parents safely out of the way-"
"My parents are dead!" Harry ellowed.
"And mine could e going the same way!" yelled Ron.
"Then GO!" roared Harry. "Go ack to them, pretend you’re got over your spattergroit and Mummy’ll e ale to feed you up and-"
Ron made a sudden movement: Harry reacted, ut efore either wand was clear of its owner’s pocket, Hermione had raised her own.
"Prestego!" she cried, and an invisile shield expanded etween her and Harry on the one side and Ron on the other; all of them were forced ackward a few steps y the strength of the spell, and Harry and Ron glared from either side of the transparent arrier as though they were seeing each other clearly for the first time. Harry felt a corrosive hatred toward Ron: Something had roken etween them.
"Leave the Horcrux," Harry said.
Ron wrenched the chain from over his head and cast the locket into a neary chair. He turned to Hermione.
"What are you doing?"
"What do you mean?"
"Are you staying, or what?"
"I . . ." She looked anguished. "Yes-yes, I’m staying. Ron, we said we’d go with Harry, we said we’d help-"
"I get it. You choose him."
"Ron, no-please-come ack, come ack!"
She was impeded y her own Shield Charm; y the time she had removed it he had already stormed into the night. Harry stood quite still and silent, listening to her soing and calling Ron’s name amongst the trees.
After a few minutes she returned, her sopping hair plastered to her face.
"He’s g-g-gone! Disapparated!"
She threw herself into a chair, curled up, and started to cry.
Harry felt dazed. He stooped, picked up the Horcrux, and placed it around his own neck. He dragged lankets off Ron’s unk and threw them over Hermione. Then he climed onto his own ed and stared up at the dark canvas roof, listening to the pounding of the rain.
Chapter Sixteen
Godric’s Hollow
When Harry woke the following day it was several seconds efore he rememered what had happened. Then he hoped childishly, that it had een a dream, that Ron was still there and had never left. Yet y turning his head on his pillow he could see Rons deserted unk. It was like a dead ody in the way it seems to draw his eyes. Harry jumped down from his own ed, keeping his eyes averted from Rons. Hermione, who was already usy in the kitchen, did not wish Harry good morning, ut turned
her face away quickly as he went y. Hes gone, Harry told himself. Hes gone. He had to keep thinking it as he washed and dressed as though repetition would dull the shock of it. Hes gone and hes not coming ack. And that was the simple truth of it, Harry knew, ecause their protective enchantments meant that it would e impossile, once they vacated this spot, for Ron to find them again. He and Hermione ate reakfast in silence. Hermiones eyes were puffy and red; she looked as if she had not slept. They packed up their things, Hermione dawdling. Harry knew why she wanted to spin out their time on the riverank; several times he saw her look up eagerly, and he was sure she had deluded herself into thinking that she heard footsteps through the heavy rain, ut no red-haired figure appeared etween the trees. Every time Harry imitated her, looked around ( for he could not help hoping a little, himself) and saw nothing ut rain-swept woods, another little parcel of fury exploded inside him. He could hear Ron saying, "We thought you knew what you were doing!", and he resumed packing with a hard knot in the pit of his stomach.
The muddy river eside them was rising rapidly and would soon spill over onto their ank. They had lingered a good hour after they would usually have departed their campsite. Finally having entirely repacked the eaded ag three times, Hermione seemed unale to find any more reasons to delay: She and Harry gasped hands and Disapparated, reappearing on a windswept heather-covered hillside. The instant they arrived, Hermione dropped Harrys hand and walked away from him, finally sitting down on a large rock, her face on her knees, shaking with what he knew were sos. He watched her, supposing that he ought to go and comfort her, ut something kept him rooted to the spot. Everything inside him felt cold and tight: Again he saw the contemptuous expression on Rons face. Harry strode off through the heather, walking in a large circle with the distraught Hermione at its center, casting the spell she usually performed to ensure their protection.
They did not discuss Ron at all over the next few days. Harry was determined never to mention his name again and Hermione seemed to know that it was no use forcing the issue, although sometimes at night when she thought he was sleeping, he would hear her
crying. Meanwhile Harry had started ringing out the Marauders map and examining it y wandlight. He was waiting for the moment when Rons laeled dot would reappear in the corridors of Hogwarts, proving that he had returned to the comfortale castle, protected y his status of purelood. However, Ron did not appear on the map and after a while Harry found himself taking it out simply to stare at Ginnys name in the girls dormitory, wondering whether the intensity with which he gazed at it might reak into her sleep, that she would somehow know he was thinking aout her, hoping that she was all right.
By day, hey devoted themselves to trying to determine the possile locations of Gryffindors sword, ut the more they talked aout the places in which Dumledore might have hidden it, the more desperate and far-fetched their speculation ecame. Cudgel his rains though he might, Harry could not rememer Dumledore ever mentioning a place in which he might hide something. There were moments when he did not know whether he was angrier with Ron or with Dumledore. We thought you knew what you were doing ...We thought Dumledore had told you what to do ... We thought you had a real plan!
He could not hide it from himself: Ron had een right. Dumledore had left him with virtually nothing. They had discovered one Horcrux, ut they had no means of destroying it: The others were as unattainale as they had ever een. Hopelessness threatened to engulf him. He was staggered now to think of his own presumption in accepting his friends offers to accompany him on this meandering, pointless journey. he knew nothing, he had no ideas, and he was constantly, painfully on the alert for any indications that Hermione too was aout to tell him that she had had enough. That she was leaving.
They were spending many evenings in near silence and Hermione took to ringing out Phineas Nigelluss portrait and propping it up in a chair, as though he might fill part of the gaping hole left y Rons departure. Despite his previous assertion that he would never visit them again, Phineas Nigellus did not seem ale to resist the chance to find out more aout what Harry was up to and consented to reappear, lindfolded, every few days of so. Harry was even glad to see him, ecause he was company, aleit of a snide and taunting kind. They relished any news aout what was happening at Hogwarts, though Phineas Nigellus was not an ideal informer. He venerated Snape, the first Slytherin headmaster since he himself had controlled the school, and they had to e careful not to criticize or ask impertinent questions aout Snape, or Phineas Nigellus would instantly leave his painting.
However, he did let drop certain snippets. Snape seemed to e facing a constant, low level of mutiny from a hard core of students. Ginny had een anned from going into Hogsmeade. Snape had reinstated Umridges old decree foridding gatherings of three or more students or any unofficial student societies. From all of these things, Harry deduced that Ginny, and proaly Neville and Luna along with her, had een doing their est to continue Dumledores Army. This scant news made Harry want to see Ginny so adly it felt like a stomachache; ut it also made him think of Ron again, and of Dumledore, and of Hogwarts itself, which he missed nearly as much as his ex-girlfriend. Indeed, as Phineas Niggellus talked aout Snapes crackdown, Harry experienced a split second of madness when he imagined simply going ack to school to join the destailization of Snape’s regime: Being fed and having a soft ad, and other people
eing in charge, seemed the most wonderful prospect in the world at this moment. But then he rememered that he was Undesirale Numer One, that there was a ten-thousand Galleon price on his head, and that to walk into Hogwarts these days was just as dangerous as walking into the Ministry of Magic. Indeed, Phineas Nigellus inadvertently emphasized this fact my slipping in leading questions aout Harry and Hermiones whereaouts. Hermione shoved him ack inside the eaded ag every time he did this, and Phineas Nigellus invarialy refused to reappear for several days after these unceremonious good-yes.
The weather grew colder and colder. They did not dare remain in any area too long, so rather than staying in the south of England, where a hard ground frost was the worst of their worries, they continued to meander up and down the country, raving a mountainside, where sleet pounded the tent; a wide, flat marsh, where the tent was flooded with chill water; and a tiny island in the middle of a Scottish loch, where snow half uried the tent in the night. They had already spotted Christmas Trees twinkling from several sitting room windows efore there came an evening when Harry resolved to suggest again, what seemed to him the only unexplored avenue left to them. They had just eaten an unusually good meal: Hermione had een to a supermarket under the Invisiility Cloak (scrupulously dropping the money into an open till as she left), and Harry thought that she might e more persuadale than usual on a stomach full of spaghetti Bolognese and tinned pears.
He had also had the foresight to suggest that they take a few hours’ reak from wearing the Horcrux, which was hanging over the end of the unk eside him.
"Hermione?"
"Hmm?" She was curled up in one of the sagging armchairs with The Tales of Beedle the Bard. He could not imagine how much more she could get out of the ook, which was not, after all, very long, ut evidently she was still deciphering something in it, ecause Spellman’s Syllaary lay open on the arm of the chair.
Harry cleared his throat. He felt exactly as he had done on the occasion, several years previously, when he had asked Professor McGonagall whether he could go into Hogsmeade, despite the fact that he had not persuaded the Dursleys to sign his permission slip.
"Hermione, I’ve een thinking, and -"
"Harry, could you help me with something?" Apparently she had not een listening to him. She leaned forward and held out The Tales of Beedle the Bard.
"Look at that symol," she said, pointing to the top of a page. Aove what Harry assumed was the title of the story (eing unale to read runes, he could not e sure), there was a picture of what looked like a triangular eye, its pupil crossed with a vertical line.
"I never took Ancient Runes, Hermione."
"I know that; ut it isn’t a rune and it’s not in the syllaary, either. All along I thought it was a picture of an eye, ut I don’t think it is! It’s een inked in, look, someody’s drawn it there, it isn’t really part of the ook. Think, have you ever seen it efore?" "No . . . No, wait a moment." Harry looked closer. "Isn’t it the same symol Luna’s dad was wearing round his neck?"
"Well, that’s what I thought too!" "Then it’s Grindelwald’s mark."
She stared at him, openmouthed.
"What?"
"Krum told me . . ." He recounted the story that Viktor Krum had told him at the wedding. Hermione looked astonished.
"Grindelwald’s mark?"
She looked from Harry to the weird symol and ack again. "I’ve never heard that Grindelwald had a mark. There’s no mention of it in anything I’ve ever read aout him."
"Well, like I say, Krum reckoned that symol was carved on a wall at Durmstrang, and Grindelwald put it there." She fell ack into the old armchair, frowning.
"That’s very odd. If it’s a symol of Dark Magic, what’s it doing in a ook of children’s stories?"
"Yeah, it is weird," said Harry. "And you’d think Scrimgeour would have recognized it. He was Minister, he ought to have een expert on Dark stuff." "I know. . . . Perhaps he thought it was an eye, just like I did. All the other stories have little pictures over the titles." She did not speak, ut continued to pore over the strange mark. Harry tried again.
"Hermione?"
"Hmm?"
"I’ve een thinking. I - I want to go to Godric’s Hollow."
She looked up at him, ut her eyes were unfocused, and he was sure she was still thinking aout the mysterious mark on the ook.
"Yes," she said. "Yes, I’ve een wondering that too. I really think we’ll have to."
"Did you hear me right?" he asked.
"Of course I did. You want to go to Godric’s Hollow. I agree. I think we should. I mean, I can’t think of anywhere else it could e either. It’ll e dangerous, ut the more I think aout it, the more likely it seems it’s there." "Er - what’s there?" asked Harry.
At that, she looked just as ewildered as he felt.
"Well, the sword, Harry! Dumledore must have known you’d want to go ack there, and I mean, Godric’s Hollow is Godric Gryffindor’s irthplace -"
"Really? Gryffindor came from Godric’s Hollow?" "Harry, did you ever even open A History of Magic?"
"Erm," he said, smiling for what felt like the first time in months: The muscles in his face felt oddly stiff. "I might’ve opened it, you know, when I ought it . . . just the once. . . ."
"Well, as the village is named after him I’d have thought you might have made the connection," said Hermione. She sounded much more like her old self than she had done of late; Harry half expected her to announce that she was off to the lirary. "There’s a it aout the village in A History of Magic, wait . . ."
She opened the eaded ag and rummaged for a while, finally extracting her copy of their old school textook, A History of Magic y Bathilda Bagshot, which she thumed through until finding the page she wanted.
"’Upon the signature of the International Statute of Secrecy in 1689, wizards went into hiding for good. It was natural, perhaps, that they formed their own small communities within a community. Many small villages and hamlets attracted several magical families, who anded together for mutual support and protection. The villages of Tinworsh in Cornwall, Upper Flagley in Yorkshire, and Ottery St. Catchpole on the south coast of England were notale homes to knots of Wizarding families who lived alongside tolerant and sometimes Confunded Muggles. Most celerated of these half-magical dwelling places is, perhaps, Godric’s Hollow, the West Country village where the great wizard Godric Gryffindor was orn, and where Bowman Wright, Wizarding smith, forged the first Golden Snitch. The graveyard is full of the names of ancient magical families, and this accounts, no dout, for the stories of hauntings that have dogged the little church eside it for many centuries.’
"You and your parents aren’t mentioned." Hermione said, closing the ook, "ecause Professor Bagshot doesn’t cover anything later than the end of the nineteenth century. But you see? Godric’s Hollow, Godric Gryffindor, Gryffindor’s sword; don’t you think Dumledore would have expected you to make the connection?"
"Oh yeah . . ."
Harry did not want to admit that he had not een thinking aout the sword at all when he suggested they go to Godric’s Hollow. For him, the lore of the village lay in his parents’ graves, the house where he had narrowly escaped death, and in the person of Bathilda Bagshot.
"Rememer what Muriel said?" he asked eventually.
"Who?"
"You know," he hesitated. He did not want to say Ron’s name. "Ginny’s great-aunt. At the wedding. The one who said you had skinny ankles."
"Oh," said Hermione. It was a sticky moment: Harry knew that she had sensed Ron’s name in the offing. He rushed on:
"She said Bathilda Bagshot still lived in Godric’s Hollow."
"Bathilda Bagshot," murmured Hermione, running her index finger over Bathilda’s emossed name on the front cover of A History of Magic. "Well, I suppose -"
She gasped so dramatically that Harry’s insides turned over; he drew his wand, looking around at the entrance, half expecting to see a hand forcing its way through the entrance flap, ut there was nothing there.
"What?" he said, half angry, half relieved. "What did you do that for? I thought you’d seen a Death Eater unzipping the tent, at least -"
"Harry, what if Bathilda’s got the sword? What if Dumledore entrusted it to her?"
Harry considered this possiility. Bathilda would e an extremely old woman y now, and according to Muriel, she was "gaga." Was it likely that Dumledore would have hidden the sword of Gryffindor with her? If so, Harry felt that Dumledore had left a great deal to chance: Dumledore had never revealed that he had replaced the sword with a fake, nor had he so much as mentioned a friendship with Bathilda. Now, however, was not the moment to cast dout on Hermione’s theory, not when she was so surprisingly willing to fall in with Harry’s dearest wish.
"Yeah, he might have done! So, are we going to go to Godric’s Hollow?"
"Yes, ut we’ll have to think it through carefully, Harry." She was sitting up now, and Harry could tell that the prospect of having a plan again had lifted her mood as much as his. "We’ll need to practice Disapparating together under the Invisiility Cloak for a start, and perhaps Disillusionment Charms would e sensile too, unless you think we should go the whole hog and use Polyjuice Potion? In that case we’ll need to collect hair from someody. I actually think we’d etter do that, Harry, the thicker our disguises the etter. . . ."
Harry let her talk, nodding and agreeing whenever there was a pause, ut his mind had left the conversation. For the first time since he had discovered that the sword in Gringotts was a fake, he felt excited.
He was aout to go home, aout to return to the place where he had had a family. It was in Godric’s Hollow that, ut for Voldemort, he would have grown up and spent every school holiday. He could have invited friends to his house. . . . He might even have had rothers and sisters. . . . It would have een his mother who had made his seventeenth irthday cake. The life he had lost had hardly ever seemed so real to him as at this moment, when he knew he was aout to see the place where it had een taken from him. After Hermione had gone to ed that night, Harry quietly extracted his rucksack from Hermione’s eaded ag, and from inside it, the photograph alum Hagrid had given him so long ago. For the first time in months, he perused the old pictures of his parents, smiling and waving up at him from the images, which were all he had left of them now.
Harry would gladly have set out for Godric’s Hollow the following day, ut Hermione had other ideas. Convinced as she was that Voldemort would expect Harry to return to the scene of his parents’ deaths, she was determined that they would set off only after they had ensured that they had the est disguises possile. It was therefore a full week later - once they had surreptitiously otained hairs from innocent Muggles who were Christmas shopping, and had practiced Apparating and Disapparating while underneath the Invisiility Cloak together - that Hermione agreed to make the journey.
They were to Apparate to the village under cover of darkness, so it was late afternoon when they finally swallowed Polyjuice Potion, Harry transforming into a alding, middle-aged Muggle man, Hermione into his small and rather mousy wife. The eaded ag containing all of their possessions (apart from the Horcrux, which Harry was wearing around his neck) was tucked into an inside pocket of Hermione’s uttoned-up coat. Harry lowered the Invisiility Cloak over them, then they turned into the suffocating darkness once again.
Heart eating in his throat, Harry opened his eyes. They were standing hand in hand in a snowy lane under a dark lue sky, in which the night’s first stars were already glimmering feely. Cottages stood on either side of the narrow road, Christmas decorations twinkling in their windows. A short way ahead of them, a glow of golden streetlights indicated the center of the village.
"All this snow!" Hermione whispered eneath the cloak. "Why didn’t we think of snow? After all our precautions, we’ll leave prints! We’ll just have to get rid of them - you go in front, I’ll do it -"
Harry did not want to enter the village like a pantomime horse, trying to keep themselves concealed while magically covering their traces.
"Let’s take off the Cloak," said Harry, and when she looked frightened, "Oh, come on, we don’t look like us and there’s no one around."
He stowed the Cloak under his jacket and they made their way forward unhampered, the icy air stinging their faces as they passed more cottages. Any one of them might have een the one in which James and Lily had once lived or where Bathilda lived now. Harry gazed at the front doors, their snow-urdened roofs, and their front porches, wondering whether he rememered any of them, knowing deep inside that it was impossile, that he had een little more than a year old when he had left this place forever. He was not even sure whether he would e ale to see the cottage at all; he did not know what happened when the sujects of a Fidelius Charm died. Then the little lane along which they were walking curved to the left and the heart of the village, a small square, was revealed to them.
Strung all around with colored lights, there was what looked like a war memorial in the middle, partly oscured y a windlown Christmas tree. There were several shops, a post office, a pu, and a little church whose stained-glass windows were glowing jewel-right across the square.
The snow here had ecome impacted: It was hard and slippery where people had trodden on it all day. Villagers were crisscrossing in front of them, their figures riefly illuminated y streetlamps. They heard a snatch of laughter and pop music as the pu door opened and closed; then they heard a carol start up inside the little church.
"Harry, I think it’s Christmas Eve!" said Hermione.
"Is it?"
He had lost track of the date; they had not seen a newspaper for weeks.
"I’m sure it is," said Hermione, her eyes upon the church. "They . . . they’ll e in there, won’t they? Your mum and dad? I can see the graveyard ehind it."
Harry felt a thrill of something that was eyond excitement, more like fear. Now that he was so near, he wondered whether he wanted to see after all. Perhaps Hermione knew how he was feeling, ecause she reached for his hand and took the lead for the first time, pulling him forward. Halfway across the square, however, she stopped dead.
"Harry, look!"
She was pointing at the war memorial. As they had passed it, it had transformed. Instead of an oelisk covered in names, there was a statue of three people: a man with untidy hair and glasses, a woman with long hair and a kind, pretty face, and a ay oy sitting in his mother’s arms. Snow lay upon all their heads, like fluffy white caps.
Harry drew closer, gazing up into his parents’ faces. He had never imagined that there would e a statue. . . . How strange it was to see himself represented in stone, a happy ay without a scar on his forehead. . . .
"C’mon," said Harry, when he had looked his fill, and they turned again toward the church. As they crossed the road, he glanced over his shoulder; the statue had turned ack into the war memorial.
The singing grew louder as they approached the church. It made Harry’s throat constrict, it reminded him so forcefully of Hogwarts, of Peeves ellowing rude versions of carols from inside suits of armor, of the Great Hall’s twelve Christmas trees, of Dumledore wearing a onnet he had won in a cracker, of Ron in a hand-knitted sweater. . . .
There was a kissing gate at the entrance to the graveyard. Hermione pushed it open as quietly as possile and they edged through it. On either side of the slippery path to the church doors, the snow lay deep and untouched. They moved off through the snow, carving deep trenches ehind them as they walked around the uilding, keeping to the shadows eneath the rilliant windows.
Behind the church, row upon row of snowy tomstones protruded from a lanket of pale lue that was flecked with dazzling red, gold, and green wherever the reflections from the stained glass hit the snow. Keeping his hand closed tightly on the wand in his jacket pocket, Harry moved toward the nearest grave.
"Look at this, it’s an Aott, could e some long-lost relation of Hannah’s!"
"Keep your voice down," Hermione egged him.
They waded deeper and deeper into the graveyard, gouging dark tracks into the snow ehind them, stooping to peer at the words on old headstones, every now and then squinting into the surrounding darkness to make asolutely sure that they were unaccompanied.
"Harry, here!"
Hermione was two rows of tomstones away; he had to wade ack to her, his heart positively anging in his chest.
"Is it - ?"
"No, ut look!"
She pointed to the dark stone. Harry stooped down and saw , upon the frozen, lichen-spotted granite, the words Kendra Dumledore and, a short way down her dates of irth and death, and Her Daughter Ariana. There was also a quotation:
Where your treasure is, there will your heart e also.
So Rita Skeeter and Muriel had got some of their facts right. The Dumledore family had indeed lived here, and part of it had died here.
Seeing the grave was worse than hearing aout it. Harry could not help thinking that he and Dumledore oth had deep roots in this graveyard, and that Dumledore ought to have told him so, yet he had never thought to share the connection. They could have visited the place together; for a moment Harry imagined coming here with Dumledore, of what a ond that would have een, of how much it would have meant to him. But it seemed that to Dumledore, the fact that their families lay side y side in the same graveyard had een an unimportant coincidence, irrelevant, perhaps, to the jo he wanted Harry to do.
Hermione was looking at Harry, and he was glad that his face was hidden in shadow. He read the words on the tomstone again. Where your treasure is, there will your heart e also. He did not understand what these words meant. Surely Dumledore had chosen them, as the eldest memer of the family once his mother had died.
"Are you sure he never mentioned - ?" Hermione egan.
"No," said Harry curtly, then, "let’s keep looking," and he turned away, wishing he had not seen the stone: He did not want his excited trepidation tainted with resentment.
"Here!" cried Hermione again a few moments later from out of the darkness. "Oh no, sorry! I thought it said Potter."
She was ruing at a crumling, mossy stone, gazing down at it, a little frown on her face.
"Harry, come ack a moment."
He did not want to e sidetracked again, and only grudgingly made his way ack through the snow toward her.
"What?"
"Look at this!" The grave was extremely old, weathered so that Harry could hardly make out the name. Hermione showed him the symol eneath it.
"Harry, that’s the mark in the ook!"
He peered at the place she indicated: The stone was so worn that it was hard to make out what was engraved there, though there did seem to e a triangular mark eneath the nearly illegile name.
"Yeah . . . it could e. . . ."
Hermione lit her wand and pointed it at the name on the headstone.
"It says Ig - Ignotus, I think. . . ." "I’m going to keep looking for my parents, all right?" Harry told her, a slight edge to his voice, and he set off again, leaving her crouched eside the old grave.
Every now and then he recognized a surname that, like Aott, he had met at Hogwarts. Sometimes there were several generations of the same Wizarding family represented in the graveyard: Harry could tell from the dates that it had either died out, or the current memers had moved away from Godric’s Hollow. Deeper and deeper amongst the graves he went, and every time he reached a new headstone he felt a little lurch of apprehension and anticipation.
The darkness and the silence seemed to ecome, all of a sudden, much deeper. Harry looked around, worried, thinking of dementors, then realized that the carols had finished, that the chatter and flurry of churchgoers were fading away as they made their way ack into the square. Someody inside the church had just turned off the lights.
Then Hermione’s voice came out of the lackness for the third time, sharp and clear from a few yards away.
"Harry, they’re here . . . right here."
And he knew y her tone that it was his mother and father this time: He moved toward her, feeling as if something heavy were pressing on his chest, the same sensation he had had right after Dumledore had died, a grief that had actually weighed on his heart and lungs.
The headstone was only two rows ehind Kendra and Ariana’s. It was made of white marle, just like Dumledore’s tom, and this made it easy to read, as it seemed to shine in the dark. Harry did not need to kneel or even approach very close to it to make out the words engraved upon it.
JAMES POTTER LILY POTTER
BORN 27 MARCH 1960 BORN 30 JANUARY 1960
DIED 31 OCTOBER 1981 DIED 31 OCTOBER 1981
The last enemy that shall e destroyed is death.
Harry read the words slowly, as though he would have only one chance to take in their meaning, and he read the last of them aloud.
"’The last enemy that shall e defeated is death’ . . ." A horrile thought came to him, and with a kind of panic. "Isn’t that a Death Eater idea? Why is that there?"
"It doesn’t mean defeating death in the way the Death Eaters mean it, Harry," said Hermione, her voice gentle. "It means . . . you know . . . living eyond death. Living after death."
But they were not living, thought Harry. They were gone. The empty words could not disguise the fact that his parents’ moldering remains lay eneath snow and stone, indifferent, unknowing. And tears came efore he could stop them, oiling hot then instantly freezing on his face, and what was the point in wiping them off or pretending? He let them fall, his lips pressed hard together, looking down at the thick snow hiding from his eyes the place where the last of Lily and James lay, ones now, surely, or dust, not knowing or caring that their living son stood so near, his heart still eating, alive ecause of their sacrifice and close to wishing, at this moment, that he was sleeping under the snow with them.
Hermione had taken his hand again and was gripping it tightly. He could not look at her, ut returned the pressure, now taking deep, sharp gulps of the night air, trying to steady himself, trying to regain control. He should have rought something o give them, and he had not thought of it, and every plant in the graveyard was leafless and frozen. But Hermione raised her wand, moved it in a circle through the air, and a wreath of Christmas roses lossomed efore them. Harry caught it and laid it on his parents’ grave.
As soon as he stood up he wanted to leave: He did not think he could stand another moment there. He put his arm around Hermione’s shoulders, and she put hers around his waist, and they turned in silence and walked away through the snow, past Dumledore’s mother and sister, ack toward the dark church and the out-of-sight kissing gate.
Chapter Seventeen
Bathilda’s Secret
"Harry, stop." "Whats wrong?" They had only just reached the grave of the unknown Aott. "Theres someone there. Someone watching us. I can tell. There, over y the ushes." They stood quite still, holding on to each other, gazing at the dense lack oundary of the graveyard. Harry could not see anything. "Are you sure?"
"I saw something move. I could have sworn I did..." She roke from him to free her wand arm. "We look like Muggles," Harry pointed out. "Muggles whove just een laying flowers on your parents grave? Harry, Im sure theres someone over there!" Harry thought of A History of Magic; the graveyard was supposed to e haunted; what if --? But then he heard a rustle and saw a little eddy of dislodged snow in the ush to which Hermione had pointed. Ghosts could not move snow. "Its a cat," said Harry, after a second or two, "or a ird. If it was a Death Eater wed e dead y now. But lets get out of here, and we can put the Cloak ack on." They glanced ack repeatedly as they made their way out of the graveyard. Harry, who did not feel as sanguine as he had pretended when reassuring Hermione, was glad to reach the gate and the slippery pavement. They pulled the Invisiility Cloak ack over themselves. The pu was fuller than efore. Many voices inside it were now singing the carol that they had heard as they approached the church. For a moment, Harry considered suggesting they take refuge inside it, ut efore he could say anything Hermione murmured, "Lets go this way," and pulled him down the dark street leading out of the village in the opposite direction from which they had entered. Harry could make out the point where the cottages ended and the lane turned into open country again. They walked as quickly as they dared, past more windows sparkling with multicolored lights, the outlines of Christmas trees dark through the curtains. "How are we going to find Bathildas house?" asked Hermione, who was shivering a little and kept glancing ack over her shoulder. "Harry? What do you think? Harry?" She tugged at this arm, ut Harry was not paying attention. He was looking toward the dark mass that stood at the very end of this row of houses. Next moment he sped up, dragging Hermione along with him, she slipped a little on the ice. "Harry --" "Look ... Look at it, Hermione ..." "I dont ... oh!" He could see it; the Fidelius Charm must have died with James and Lily. The hedge had grown wild in the sixteen years since Hagrid had taken Harry from the rule that lay scattered amongst the waist-high grass. Most of the cottage was still standing, though entirely covered in the dark ivy and snow, ut the right side of the top floor had een lown apart; that, Harry was sure, was where the curse had ackfired. He and Hermione
stood at the gate, gazing up at the wreck of what must once have een a cottage just like those that flanked it. "I wonder why noodys ever reuilt it?" whispered Hermione. "Maye you cant reuild it?" Harry replied. "Maye its like the injuries from Dark Magic and you cant repair the damage?" He slipped a hand from eneath the Cloak and grasped the snowy and thickly rusted gate, not wishing to open it, ut simply so hed some part of the house. "Youre not going to go inside? It looks unsafe, it might -- oh, Harry, look!" His touch on the gate seemed to have done it. A sign had risen out of the ground in front of them, up thorough the tangles of nettles and weeds, like some izarre, fast-growing flower, and in golden letters upon the wood it said: On this spot, on this night of 31 Octoer 1981, Lily and James Potter lost their lives. Their son, Harry, remains the only wizard ever to have survived the Killing Curse. This house, invisile to Muggles, has een left in its ruined state as a monument to the Potters and as a reminder of the violence that tore apart their family. And all around these neatly lettered words, scriles had een added y other witches and wizards who had come to see the place where the Boy Who Lived had escaped. Some had merely signed their names in Everlasting Ink; others had carved their initials into the wood, still others had left messages. The most recent of these, shining rightly over sixteen years worth of magical graffiti, all said similar things. Good luck, Harry, wherever you are. If you read this, Harry, were all ehind you! Long live Harry Potter. "They shouldnt have written on the sign!" said Hermione, indignant. But Harry eamed at her. "Its rilliant. Im glad they did. I ..." He roke off. A heavily muffled figure was holing up the lane toward them, silhouetted y the right lights in the distant square. Harry thought, though it was hard to judge, that the figure was a woman. She was moving slowly, possily frightened of slipping on the snowy ground. Her stoop, her stoutness, her shuffling gait all gave an impression of
extreme age. They watched in silence as she drew nearer. Harry was waiting to see whether she would turn into any of the cottages she was passing, ut he knew instinctively that she would not. At last she came to a halt a few yards from them and simply stood there in the middle of the frozen road, facing them. He did not need Hermiones pinch to his arm. There was next to no chance that this woman was a Muggle: She was standing there gazing at a house that ought to have een completely invisile to her, if she was not a witch. Even assuming that she was a witch, however, it was odd ehavior to come out on a night this cold, simply to look at an old ruin. By all the rules of normal magic, meanwhile, she ought not to e ale to see Hermione and him at all. Nevertheless, Harry had the strangest feeling that she knew that they were there, and also who they were. Just as he had reached this uneasy conclusion, she raised a gloved hand and eckoned. Hermione moved closer to him under the Cloak, her arm pressed against his. "How does she know?" He shook his head. The woman eckoned again, more vigorously. Harry could think of many reasons not to oey the summons, and yet his suspicions aout her identity were growing stronger every moment that they stood facing each other in the deserted street. Was it possile that she had een waiting for them all these long months? That Dumledore had told her to wait, and that Harry would come in the end? Was it not likely that it was she who had moved in the shadows in the graveyard and had followed them to this spot? Even her aility to sense them suggested some Dumledore-ish power that he had never encountered efore. Finally Harry spoke, causing Hermione to gasp and jump. "Are you Bathilda?" The muffled figure nodded and eckoned again. Beneath the Cloak Harry and Hermione looked at each other. Harry raised his eyerows; Hermione gave a tiny, nervous nod. They stepped toward the woman and , at once, she turned and holed off ack the way they had come. Leading them past several houses, she turned in at a gate. They followed her up the front path through a garden nearly as overgrown as the one they had just left. She fumled for a moment with a key at the front door, then opened it and stepped ack to let them pass. She smelled ad, or perhaps it was her house; Harry wrinkled his nose as they sidled past her and pulled off the Cloak. Now that he was eside her, he realized how tiny she was; owed down with age, she came arely level with his chest. She closed the door ehind
them, her knuckles lue and mottled against the peeling paint, then turned and peered into Harrys face. Her eyes were thick with cataracts and sunken into folds of transparent skin, and her whole face was dotted with roken veins and liver spots. He wondered whether she could make him out at all; even if she could, it was the alding Muggle whose identity he had stolen that she would see. The odor of old age, of dust, of unwashed clothes and stale food intensified as the unwound a moth-eaten lack shawl, revealing a head of scant white hair through which the scalp showed clearly. "Bathilda?" Harry repeated. She nodded again. Harry ecame aware of the locket against his skin; the thing inside it that sometimes ticked or eat had woken; he could feel it pulsing through the cold gold. Did it know, could it sense, that the thing that would destroy it was near? Bathilda shuffled past them, pushing Hermione aside as though she had not seen her, and vanished into what seemed to e a sitting room. "Harry, Im not sure aout this," reathed Hermione. "Look at the size of her, I think we could overpower her if we had to," said Harry. "Listen, I should have told you, I knew she wasnt all there. Muriel called her gaga." "Come!" called Bathilda from the next room. Hermione jumped and clutched Harrys arm. "Its okay," said Harry reassuringly, and he led the way into the sitting room. Bathilda was tottering around the place lighting candles, ut it was still very dark, not to mention extremely dirty. Thick dust crunched eneath their feet, and Harrys nose detected, underneath the dank and mildewed smell, something worse, like meat gone ad. He wondered when was the last time anyone had een inside Bathildas house to check whether she was coping. She seemed to have forgotten that she could do magic, too, for she lit the candles clumsily y hand, her trailing lace cuff in constant danger of catching fire. "Let me do that," offered Harry, and he took the matches from her. She stood watching him as he finished lighting the candle stus that stood on saucers around the room, perched precariously on stacks of ooks and on side tales crammed with cracked and moldy cups. The last surface on which Harry spotted a candle was a ow-fronted chest of drawers on which there stood a large numer of photographs. When the flame danced into life, its reflection wavered on their dusty glass and silver. He saw a few tiny movements from the
pictures. As Bathilda fumled with logs for the fire, he muttered "Tergeo": The dust vanished from the photographs, and he saw at once that half a dozen were missing from the largest and most ornate frames. He wondered whether Bathilda or someody else had removed them. Then the sight of a photograph near the ack of the collection caught his eye, and he snatched it up. It was the golden-haired, merry-faced thief, the young man who had perched on Gregorovitchs windowsill, smiling lazily up at Harry out of the silver frame. And it came to Harry instantly where he had seen the oy efore: in The Life and Lies of Alus Dumledore, arm in arm with the teenage Dumledore, and that must e where all the missing photographs were: in Ritas ook. "Mrs. -- Miss -- Bagshot?" he said, and his voice shook slightly. "Who is this?" Bathilda was standing in the middle of the room watching Hermione light the fire for her. "Miss Bagshot?" Harry repeated, and he advanced with the picture in his hands as the flames urst into life in the fireplace. Bathilda looked up at his voice, and the Horcrux eat faster upon his chest. "Who is this person?" Harry asked her, pushing the picture forward. She peered at it solemnly, then up at Harry. "Do you know who this is?" he repeated in a much slower and louder voice than usual. "This man? Do you know him? Whats he called?" Bathilda merely looked vague. Harry felt an awful frustration. How had Rita Skeeter unlocked Bathildas memories? "Who is this man?" he repeated loudly. "Harry, what area you doing?" asked Hermione. "This picture. Hermione, its the thief, the thief who stole from Gregorovitch! Please!" he said to Bathilda. "Who is this?" But she only stared at him. "Why did you ask us to come with you, Mrs. - Miss -- Bagshot?" asked Hermione, raising her own voice. "Was there something you wanted to tell us?" Giving no sign that she had heard Hermione, Bathilda now shuffled a few steps closer to Harry. With a little jerk of her head she looked ack into the hall. "You want us to leave?" he asked.
She repeated the gesture, this time pointing firstly at him, then at herself, then at the ceiling. "Oh, right... Hermione, I think she wants me to go upstairs with her." "All right," said Hermione, "lets go." But when Hermione moved, Bathilda shook her head with surprising vigor, once more pointing first at Harry, then to herself. "She wants me to go with her, alone." "Why?" asked Hermione, and her voice rang out sharp and clear in the candlelit room, the old lady shook her head a little at the loud noise. "Maye Dumledore told her to give the sword to me, and only to me?" "Do you really think she knows who you are?" "Yes," said Harry, looking down into the milky eyes fixed upon his own. "I think she does." "Well, okay then, ut e quick, Harry." "Lead the way," Harry told Bathilda. She seemed to understand, ecause she shuffled around him toward the door. Harry glanced ack at Hermione with a reassuring smile, ut he was not sure she had seen it; she stood hugging herself in the midst of the candlelit squalor, looking toward the ookcase. As Harry walked out of the room, unseen y oth Hermione and Bathilda, he slipped the silver-framed photograph of the unknown thief inside his jacket. The stairs were steep and narrow; Harry was half tempted to place his hands on stout Bathildas ackside to ensure that she did not topple over ackward on top of him, which seemed only too likely. Slowly, wheezing a little, she climed to the upper landing, turned immediately right, and led him into a low-ceilinged edroom. It was pitch-lack and smelled horrile: Harry had just made out a chamer pot protruding from under the ed efore Bathilda closed the door and even that was swallowed y the darkness. "Lumos," said Harry, and his wand ignited. He gave a start: Bathilda had moved close to him in those few seconds of darkness, and he had not heard her approach. "You are Potter?" she whispered.
"Yes, I am." She nodded slowly, solemnly. Harry felt the Horcrux eating fast, faster than his own heart; It was an unpleasant, agitating sensation. "Have you got anything for me?" Harry asked, ut she seemed distracted y his lit wand-tip. "Have you got anything for me?" he repeated. Then she closed her eyes and several things happened at once: Harrys scar prickled painfully; the Horcrux twitched so that the front of his sweater actually moved; the dark, fetid room dissolved momentarily. He felt a leap of joy and spoke in a high, cold voice: Hold him! Harry swayed where he stood: The dark, foul-smelling room seemed to close around him again; he did not know what had just happened. "Have you got anything for me?" he asked for a third time, much louder. "Over here," she whispered, pointing to the corner. Harry raised his wand and saw the outline of a cluttered dressing tale eneath the curtained window. This time she did not lead him. Harry edged etween her and the unmade ed, his wand raised. He did not want to look away from her. "What is it?" he asked as he reached the dressing tale, which was heaped high with what looked and smelled like dirty laundry. "There," she said, pointing at the shapeless mass. And in the instant that he looked away, his eyes taking the tangled mess for a sword hilt, a ruy, she moved weirdly: He saw it out of the corner of his eye; panic made him turn and horror paralyzed him as he saw the old ody collapsing and the great snake pouring from the place where her neck had een. The snake struck as he raised his wand: The force of the ite to his forearm sent the wand spinning up toward the ceiling; its light swung dizzyingly around the room and was extinguished; Then a powerful low from the tail to his midriff knocked the reath out of him: He fell ackward onto the dressing tale, into the mound of filthy clothing -- He rolled sideways, narrowly avoiding the snakes tail, which thrashed down upon the tale where he had een a second earlier. Fragments of the glass surface rained upon him as he hit the floor. From elow he heard Hermione call, "Harry?"
He could not get enough reath into his lungs to call ack: Then a heavy smooth mass smashed him to the floor and he felt it slide over him, powerful, muscular -- "No!" he gasped, pinned to the floor. "Yes," whispered the voice. "Yesss... hold you ... hold you ..." "Accio ... Accio Wand ..." But nothing happened and he needed his hands to try to force the snake from him as it coiled itself around his torso, squeezing the air from him, pressing the Horcrux hard into his chest, a circle of ice that throed with life, inches from his own frantic heart, and his rain was flooding with cold, white light, all thought oliterated, his own reath drowned, distant footsteps, everything going... A metal heart was anging outside his chest, and now he was flying, flying with triumph in his heart, without need of roomstick or thestral... He was aruptly awake in the sour-smelling darkness; Nagini had released him. He scramled up and saw the snake outlined against the landing light: It struck, and Hermione dived aside with a shriek; her deflected curse hit the curtained window, which shattered. Frozen air filled the room as Harry ducked to avoid another shower of roken glass and his foot slipped on a pencil-like something -- his wand -- He ent and snatched it up, ut now the room was full of the snake, its tail thrashing; Hermione was nowhere to e seen and for a moment Harry thought the worst, ut then there was a loud ang and a flash of red light, and the snake flew into the air, smacking Harry hard in the face as it went, coil after heavy coil rising up to the ceiling. Harry raised his wand, ut as he did so, his scar seared more painfully, more powerfully than it had done in years. "Hes coming! Hermione, hes coming!" As he yelled the snake fell, hissing wildly. Everything was chaos: It smashed shelves from the wall, and splintered china flew everywhere as Harry jumped over the ed and seized the dark shape he knew to e Hermione -- She shrieked with pain as he pulled her ack across the ed: The snake reared again, ut Harry knew that worse than the snake was coming, was perhaps already at the gate, his head was going to split open with the pain from his scar -- The snake lunged as he took a running leap, dragging Hermione with him; as it struck, Hermione screamed, "Confringo!" and her spell flew around the room, exploding the wardroe mirror and ricocheting ack at them, ouncing from floor to ceiling; Harry felt the heat of it sear the ack of his hand. Glass cut his cheek as, pulling Hermione with him, he leapt from ed to roken dressing tale and then straight out of the smashed window
into nothingness, her scream revererating through the night as they twisted in midair ... And then his scar urst open and he was Voldemort and he was running across the fetid edroom, his long white hands clutching at the windowsill as he glimpsed the ald man and the little woman twist and vanish, and he screamed with rage, a scream that mingled with the girls, that echoed across the dark gardens over the church ells ringing in Christmas Day... And his scream was Harrys scream, his pain was Harrys pain... that it could happen here, where it had happened efore... here, within sight of that house where he had come so close to knowing what it was to die ... to die ... the pain was so terrile ... ripped from his ody ... But if he had no ody, why did his head hurt so adly; if he was dead, how cold he feel so unearaly, didnt pain cease with death, didnt it go ... The night wet and windy, two children dressed as pumpkins waddling across the square and the shop windows covered in paper spiders, all the tawdry Muggle trappings of a world in which they did not elieve ... And he was gliding along, that sense of purpose and power and rightness in him that he always knew on these occasions ... Not anger ... that was for weaker souls than he ... ut triumph, yes ... He had waited for this, he had hoped for it ... "Nice costume, mister!" He saw the small oys smile falter as he ran near enough to see eneath the hood of the cloak, saw the fear cloud his pained face: Then the child turned and ran away ... Beneath the roe he fingered the handle of his wand ... One simple movement and the child would never reach his mother ... ut unnecessary, quite unnecessary ... And along a new and darker street he moved, and now his destination was in sight at last, the Fidelius Charm roken, though they did not know it yet ... And he made less noise than the dead leaves slithering along the pavement as he drew level with the dark hedge, and steered over it ... They had not drawn the curtains; he saw them quite clearly in their little sitting room, the tall lack-haired man in his glasses, making puffs of colored smoke erupt from his wand for the amusement of the small lack-haired oy in his lue pajamas. The child was laughing and trying to catch the smoke, to gra it in his small fist ... A door opened and the mother entered, saying words he cold not hear, her long dark-red hair falling over her face. Now the father scooped up the son and handed him to the mother. He threw his wand down upon the sofa and stretched, yawning... The gate creaked a little as he pushed it open, ut James Potter did not hear. His white hand pulled out the wand eneath his cloak and pointed it at the door, which urst open... He was over the threshold as James came sprinting into the hall. It was easy, too easy, he
had not even picked up his wand ... "Lily, take Harry and go! Its him! Go! Run! Ill hold him off!" Hold him off, without a wand in his hand! ... He laughed efore casting the curse ... "Avada Kedavra!" The green light filled the cramped hallway, it lit the pram pushed against the wall, it made the anisters glow like lighting rods, and James Potter fell like a marionette whose strings were cut ... He could hear her screaming from the upper floor, trapped, ut as long as she was sensile, she, at least, had nothing to fear ... He climed the steps, listening with faint amusement to her attempts to arricade herself in ... She had no wand upon her either ... How stupid they were, and how trusting, thinking that their safety lay in friends, that weapons could e discarded even for moments... He forced the door open, cast aside the chair and oxes hastily piled against it with one lazy wave of his wand ... and there she stood, the child in her arms. At the sight of him, she dropped her son into the cri ehind her and threw her arms wide, as if this would help, as if in shielding him from sight she hoped to e chosen instead ... "Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!" "Stand aside, you silly girl... stand aside, now." "Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead --" "This is my last warning --" "Not Harry! Please ... have mercy ... have mercy ... Not Harry! Not Harry! Please -- Ill do anything ..." "Stand aside. Stand aside, girl!" He could have forced her away from the cri, ut it seemed more prudent to finish them all ... The green light flashed around the room and she dropped like her husand. The child had not cried all this time. He could stand, clutching the ars of his cri, and he looked up into the intruders face with a kind of right interest, perhaps thinking that it was his father who hid eneath the cloak, making more pretty lights, and his mother would pop up any moment, laughing -- He pointed the wand very carefully into the oys face: He wanted to see it happen, the
destruction of this one, inexplicale danger. The child egan to cry: It had seen that he was not James. He did not like it crying, he had never een ale to stomach the small ones whining in the orphanage -- "Avada Kedavra!" And then he roke. He was nothing, nothing ut pain and terror, and he must hide himself, not here in the rule of the ruined house, where the child was trapped screaming, ut far away ... far away ... "No," he moaned. The snake rustled on the filthy, cluttered floor, and he had killed the oy, and yet he was the oy ... "No..." And now he stood at the roken window of Bathildas house, immersed in memories of his greatest loss, and at his feet the great snake slithered over roken china and glass... He looked down and saw something... something incredile... "No..." "Harry, its all right, youre all right!" He stooped down and picked up the smashed photograph. There he was, the unknown thief, the thief he was seeking... "No... I dropped it... I dropped it ..." "Harry, its okay, wake up, wake up!" He was Harry... Harry, not Voldemort ... and the thing that was rustling was not a snake ... He opened his eyes. "Harry," Hermione whispered. "Do you feel all -- all right?" "Yes," he lied. He was in the tent, lying on one of the lower unks eneath a heap of lankets. He could tell that it was almost dawn y the stillness and quality of the cold, flat light eyond the canvas ceiling. He was drenched in sweat; he could feel it on the sheets and lankets. "We got away." "Yes," said Hermione. "I had to use a Hover Charm to get you into your unk. I couldnt
lift you. Youve een ... Well, you havent een quite ..." There were purple shadows under her rown eyes and he noticed a small sponge in her hand: She had een wiping his face. "Youve een ill," she finished. "Quite ill." "How long ago did we leave?" "Hours ago. Its nearly morning." "And Ive een... what, unconscious?" "Not exactly," said Hermione uncomfortaly. "Youve een shouting and moaning and ... things," she added in a tone that made Harry feel uneasy. What had he done? Screamed curses like Voldemort, cried like the ay in the cri? "I couldnt get the Horcrux off you," Hermione said, and he knew she wanted to change the suject. "It was stuck, stuck to your chest. Youve got a mark; Im sorry, I had to use a Severing Charm to get it away. The snake hit you too, ut Ive cleaned the wound and put some dittany on it ..." He pulled the sweaty T-shirt he was wearing away from himself and looked down. There was a scarlet oval over his heart where the locket had urned him. He could also see the half healed puncture marks to his forearm. "Whereve you put the Horcrux?" "In my ag. I think we should keep it off for a while." He lay ack on his pillows and looked into her pinched gray face. "We shouldnt have gone to Godrics Hollow. Its my fault, its all my fault. Hermione, Im sorry." "Its not you fault. I wanted to go too; I really thought Dumledore might have left the sword there for you." "Yeah, well ... we got that wrong, didnt we?" "What happened, Harry? What happened when she took you upstairs? Was the snake hiding somewhere? Did it just come out and kill her and attack you?" "No." he said. "She was the snake ... or the snake was her ... all along." "W-what?"
He closed his eyes. He could still smell Bathildas house on him; it made the whole thing horrily vivid. "Bathilda mustve een dead a while. The snake was ... was inside her. You-Know-Who put it there in Godrics Hollow, to wait. You were right. He knew Id go ack." "The snake was inside her?" He opened his eyes again. Hermione looked revolted, nauseated. "Lupin said there would e magic wed never imagined." Harry said. "She didnt want to talk in front of you, ecause it was Parseltongue, all Parseltongue, and I didnt realize, ut of course I could understand her. Once we were up in the room, the snake sent a message to You-Know-Who, I heard it happen inside my head, I felt him get excited, he said to keep me there ... and then ..." He rememered the snake coming out of Bathildas neck: Hermione did not need to know the details. "...she changed, changed into the snake, and attacked." He looked down at the puncture marks. "It wasnt supposed to kill me, just keep me there till You-Know-Who came." If he had only managed to kill the snake, it would have een worth it, all of it ... Sick at heart, he sat up and threw ack the covers. "Harry, no, Im sure you ought to rest!" "Youre the one who needs sleep. No offense, ut you look terrile. Im fine. Ill keep watch for a while. Wheres my wand?" She did not answer, she merely looked at him. "Wheres my wand, Hermione?" She was iting her lip, and tears swam in her eyes. "Harry ..." "Wheres my wand?" She reached down eside the ed and held it out to him.
The holly and phoenix wand was nearly severed in two. One fragile strand of phoenix feather kept oth pieces hanging together. The wood had splintered apart completely. Harry took it into his hands as though it was a living thing that had suffered a terrile injury. He could not think properly: Everything was a lur of panic and fear. Then he held out the want to Hermione. "Mend it. Please." "Harry, I dont think, when its roken like this --" "Please, Hermione, try!" "R-Reparo." The dangling half of the wand resealed itself. Harry held it up. "Lumos!" The wand sparked feely, then went out. Harry pointed it at Hermione. "Expelliarmus!" Hermiones wand gave a little jerk, ut did not leave her hand. The feele attempt at magic was too much for Harrys wand, which split into two again. He stared at it, aghast, unale to take in what he was seeing ... the wand that had survived so much ... "Harry." Hermione whispered so quietly he could hardly hear her. "Im so, so sorry. I think it was me. As we were leaving, you know, the snake was coming for us, and so I cast a Blasting Curse, and it reounded everywhere, and it must have -- must have hit --" "It was an accident." said Harry mechanically. He felt empty, stunned. "Well -- well find a way to repair it." "Harry, I dont think were going to e ale to," said Hermione, the ears trickling down her face. "Rememer ... rememer Ron? When he roke his wand, crashing the car? It was never the same again, he had to get a new one." Harry thought of Ollivander, kidnapped and held hostage y Voldemort; of Gregorovitch, who was dead. How was he supposed to find himself a new wand? "Well," he said, in a falsely matter-of-fact voice, "well, Ill just orrow yours for now, then. While I keep watch." Her face glazed with tears, Hermione handed over her wand, and he left her sitting eside his ed, desiring nothing more than to get away from her.
Chapter Eighteen
The Life and Lies of Alus Dumledore
The sun was coming up: The pure, colorless vastness of the sky stretched over him, indifferent to him and his suffering. Harry sat down in the tent entrance and took a deep reath of clean air. Simply to e alive to watch the sun rise over the sparkling snowy hillside ought to have een the greatest treasure on earth, yet he could not appreciate it: His senses had een spiked y the calamity of losing his want. He looked out over a valley lanketed in snow, distant church ells chiming through the glittering silence.
Without realizing it, he was digging his fingers into his arms as if he were trying to resist physical pain. He had spilled his own lood more times than he could count; he had lost all ones in his right arm once; this journey had already given him scars to his chest and forearm to join those on his hand and forehead, ut never, until this moment, had he felt himself to e fatally weakened, vulnerale, and naked, as though the est part of his magical power had een torn from him. He knew exactly what Hermione would say if he expressed any of this: The wand is only as good as the wizard. But she was wrong, his case was different. She had not felt the wand spin like the needle of a compass and shoot golden flames at his enemy. He had lost the protection of the twin cores, and only now that it was gone did he realize how much he had een counting on it.
He pulled the pieces of the roken wand out of his pocket and, without looking at them, tucked them away in Hagrid’s pouch around his neck. The pouch was now too full of roken and useless ojects to take any more. Harry’s hand rushed the old Snitch through the mokeskin and for a moment he had to fight the temptation to pull it out and throw it away. Impenetrale, unhelpful, useless, like everything else Dumledore had left ehind ---
And his fury at Dumledore roke over him now like lava, scorching him inside, wiping out every other feeling. Out of sheer desperation they had talked themselves into elieving that Godric’s Hollow held answers, convinced themselves that they were supposed to go ack, that it was all part of some secret path laid out for them y Dumledore: ut there was no map, no plan. Dumledore had left them to grope in the darkness, to wrestle with unknown and undreamed-of terrors, alone and unaided: Nothing was explained, nothing was given freely, they had no sword, and now, Harry had no wand. And he had dropped the photograph of the thief, and it would surely e easy now for Voldemort to find out who he was . . .
Voldemort had all the information now . . .
"Harry?"
Hermione looked frightened that he might curse her with her own wand. Her face streaked with tears, she crouched down eside him, two cups of tea tremling in her hands and something ulky under her arm.
"Thanks," he said, taking one of the cups.
"Do you mind if I talk to you?"
"No," he said ecause he did not want to hurt her feelings.
"Harry, you wanted to know who that man in the picture was. Well . . . I’ve got the ook."
Timidly she pushed it onto his lap, a pristine copy of The Life and Lies of Alus Dumledore.
"Where --- how --- ?"
"It was in Bathilda’s sitting room, just lying there. . . . This note was sticking out of the top of it."
Hermione read the few lines of spiky, acid-green writing aloud.
" ‘Dear Bally, Thanks for your help. Here’s a copy of the ook, hope you like it. You said everything, even if you don’t rememer it. Rita.’ I think it must have arrived while the real Bathilda was alive, ut perhaps she wasn’t in any fit state to read it?"
"No, she proaly wasn’t."
Harry looked down upon Dumledore’s face and experienced a surge of savage pleasure: Now he would know if all the things that Dumledore had never thought it worth telling him, whether Dumledore wanted him to or not.
"You’re still really angry at me, aren’t you?" said Hermione; he looked up to see fresh tears leaking out of her eyes, and knew that his anger must have shown in his face.
"No," he said quietly. "No, Hermione, I know it was an accident. You were trying to get us out of there alive, and you were incredile. I’d e dead if you hadn’t een there to help me."
He tried to return her watery smile, then turned his attention to the ook. Its spine was stiff; it had clearly never een opened efore. He riffled through the pages, looking for photographs. He came across the one he sought almost at once, the young Dumledore and his handsome companion, roaring with laughter at some long-forgotten joke. Harry dropped his eyes to the caption.
Alus Dumledore, shortly after his mother’s death,
With his friend Gellert Grindelwald.
Harry gaped at the last word for several long moments. Grindelwald. His friend Grindelwald. He looked sideways at Hermione, who was still contemplating the name as though she could not elieve her eyes. Slowly she looked up at Harry.
"Grindelwald!"
Ignoring the remainder of the photographs, Harry searched the pages around them for a recurrence of that fatal name. He soon discovered it and read greedily, ut ecame lost: It was necessary to go farther ack to make sense of it all, and eventually he found himself at the start of a chapter entitled "The Greater Good." Together, he and Hermione started to read:
Now approaching his eighteenth irthday, Dumledore left Hogwarts in a laze of glory --- Head Boy, Prefect, Winner of the Barnaus Finkley Prize for Exceptional Spell-Casting, British Youth Representative to the Wizengamot, Gold Medal-Winner for Ground-Breaking Contriution to the International Alchemical Conference in Cairo. Dumledore intended, next, to take a Grand Tour with Elphias "Dogreath" Doge, the dim-witted ut devoted sidekick he had picked up at school.
The two young men were staying at the Leaky Cauldron in London, preparing to depart for Greece the following morning, when an owl arrived earing news of Dumledore’s mother’s death. "Dogreath" Doge, who refused to e interviewed for this ook, has given the pulic his own sentimental
version of what happened next. He represents Kendra’s death as a tragic low, and Dumledore’s decision to give up his expedition as an act of nole self-sacrifice.
Certainly Dumledore returned to Godric’s Hollow at once, supposedly to "care" for his younger rother and sister. But how much care did he actually give them?
"He were a head case, that Aerforth," said Enid Smeek, whose family lived on the outskirts of Godric’s Hollow at that time. "Ran wild. ‘Course, with his mum and dad gone you’d have felt sorry for him, only he kept chucking goat dung at my head. I don’t think Alus was fussed aout him. I never saw them together, anyway."
So what was Alus doing, if not comforting his wild young rother? The answer, it seems, is ensuring the continued imprisonment of his sister. For though her first jailer had died, there was no change in the pitiful condition of Ariana Dumledore. Her very existence continued to e known only to those few outsiders who, like "Dogreath" Doge, could e counted upon to elieve in the story of her "ill health."
Another such easily satisfied friend of the family was Bathilda Bagshot, the celerated magical historian who has lived in Godric’s Hollow for many years. Kendra, of course, had reuffed Bathilda when she first attempted to welcome the family to the village. Several years later, however, the author sent an owl to Alus at Hogwarts, having een favoraly impressed y his paper on trans-species transformation in Transfiguration Today. This initial contract led to acquaintance with the entire Dumledore family. At the time of Kendra’s death, Bathilda was the only person in Godric’s Hollow who was on speaking terms with Dumledore’s mother.
Unfortunately, the rilliance that Bathilda exhiited earlier in her life has now dimmed. "The fire’s lit, ut the cauldron’s empty," as Ivor Dillonsy put it to me, or, in Enid Smeek’s slightly earthier phrase, "She’s nutty as squirrel poo." Nevertheless, a comination of tried-and-tested reporting techniques enaled me to extract enough nuggets of hard fact to string together the whole scandalous story.
Like the rest of the Wizarding world, Bathilda puts Kendra’s premature death down to a ackfiring charm, a story repeated y Alus and Aerforth in later years. Bathilda also parrots the family line on Ariana, calling her "frail" and "delicate." On one suject, however, Bathilda is well worth the effort I put into procuring Veritaserum, for she, and she alone, knows the full story of the est-kept secret of Alus Dumledore’s life. Now revealed for the first time, it calls into question everything that his admirers elieved of Dumledore: his supposed hatred of the Dark Arts, his opposition into the oppression of Muggles, even his devotion to his own family.
The very same summer that Dumledore went home to Godric’s Hollow, now an orphan and head of the family, Bathilda Bagshot agreed to accept into her home her great-nephew, Gellert Grindelwald.
The name of Grindelwald is justly famous: In a list of Most Dangerous Dark Wizards of All Time, he would miss out on the top spot only ecause You-
Know-Who arrived, a generation later, to steal his crown. As Grindelwald never extended his campaign of terror to Britain, however, the details of his rise to power are not widely known here.
Educated at Durmstrang, a school famous even then for its unfortunate tolerance of the Dark Arts, Grindelwald showed himself quite as precociously rilliant as Dumledore. Rather than channel his ailities into the attainment of awards and prizes, however, Gellert Grindelwald devoted himself no other pursuits. At sixteen years old, even Durmstrang felt it could no longer turn a lind eye to the twisted experiments of Gellert Grindelwald, and he was expelled.
Hitherto, all that has een known of Grindelwald’s next movements is that he "traveled around for some months." It can now e revealed that Grindelwald chose to visit his great-aunt in Godric’s Hollow, and that there, intensely shocking though it will e for many to hear it, he struck up a close friendship with none other than Alus Dumledore.
"He seemed a charming oy to me," ales Bathilda, "whatever he ecame later. Naturally I introduced him to poor Alus, who was missing the company of lads his own age. The oys took to each other at once."
They certainly did. Bathilda shows me a letter, kept y her that Alus Dumledore sent Gellert Grindelwald in the dead of night.
"Yes, even after they’d spent all day in discussion --- oth such rilliant young oys, they got on like a cauldron on fire --- I’d sometimes hear an owl tapping at Gellert’s edroom window, delivering a letter from Alus! An idea would have struck him and he had to let Gellert know immediately!"
And what ideas they were. Profoundly shocking though Alus Dumledore’s fans will find it, here are the thoughts of their seventeen-year-old hero, as relayed to his new est friend. (A copy of the original letter may e seen on page 463.)
Gellert ---
Your point aout Wizard dominance eing FOR THE MUGGLES’ OWN GOOD --- this, I think, is the crucial point. Yes, we have een given power and yes, that power gives us the right to rule, ut it also gives us responsiilities over the ruled. We must stress this point, it will e the foundation stone upon which we uild. Where we are opposed, as we surely will e, this must e the asis of all our counterarguments. We seize control FOR THE GREATER GOOD. And from this it follows that where we meet resistance, we must use only the force that is necessary and no more. (This was your mistake at Durmstrang! But I do not complain, ecause if you had not een expelled, we would never have met.)
Alus
Astonished and appalled though his many admirers will e, this letter constitutes the Statute of Secrecy and estalishing Wizard rule over Muggles. What a low for those who have always portrayed Dumledore as the Muggle-orns’ greatest champion! How hollow those speeches promoting Muggle rights
seem in the light of this damning new evidence! How despicale does Alus Dumledore appear, usy plotting his rise to power when he should have een mourning his mother and caring for his sister!
No dout those determined to keep Dumledore on his crumling pedestal will leat that he did not, after all, put his plans into action, that he must have suffered a change of heart, that he came to his senses. However, the truth seems altogether more shocking.
Barely two months into their great new friendship, Dumledore and Grindelwald parted, never to see each other again until they met for their legendary duel (for more, see chapter 22). What caused this arupt rupture? Had Dumledore come to his senses? Had he told Grindelwald he wanted no more part in his plans? Alas, no.
"It was poor little Ariana dying, I think, that did it," says Bathilda. "It came as an awful shock. Gellert was there in the house when it happened, and he came ack to my house all of a dither, told me he wanted to go home the next day. Terrily distressed, you know. So I arranged a Portkey and that was the last I saw of him.
"Alus was eside himself at Ariana’s death. It was so dreadful for those two rothers. They had lost everyody except for each other. No wonder tempers ran a little high. Aerforth lamed Alus, you know, as people will under these dreadful circumstances. But Aerforth always talked a little madly, poor oy. All the same, reaking Alus’s nose at the funeral was not decent. It would have destroyed Kendra to see her sons fighting like that, across her daughter’s ody. A shame Gellert could not have stayed for the funeral. . . . He would have een a comfort to Alus, at least. . . .
This dreadful coffin-side rawl, known only to those few who attended Ariana Dumledore’s funeral, raises several questions. Why exactly did Aerforth Dumledore lame Alus for his sister’s death? Was it, as "Batty" pretends, a mere effusion of grief? Or could there have een some more concrete reason for his fury? Grindelwald, expelled from Durmstrang for the near-fatal attacks upon fellow students, fled the country hours after the girl’s death, and Alus (out of shame or fear?) never saw him again, not until forced to do so y the pleas of the Wizarding world.
Neither Dumledore nor Grindelwald ever seems to have referred to this rief oyhood friendship in later life. However, there can e no dout that Dumledore delayed, for some five years of turmoil, fatalities, and disappearances, his attack upon Gellert Grindelwald. Was it lingering affection for the man or fear of exposure as his once est friend that caused Dumledore to hesitate? Was it only reluctantly that Dumledore set out to capture the man he was once so delighted he had met?
And how did the mysterious Ariana die? Was she the inadvertent victim of some Dark rite? Did she stumle across something she ought not to have done, as the two young men sat practicing for their attempt at glory and domination? Is it possile that Ariana Dumledore was the first person to die "for the greater good"?
The chapter ended here and Harry looked up. Hermione had reached the ottom of the page efore him. She tugged the ook out of Harry’s hands, looking a little alarmed y his expression, and closed it without looking at it, as though hiding something indecent.
"Harry ---"
But he shook his head. Some inner certainty had crashed down inside him; it was exactly as he had felt after Ron left. He had trusted Dumledore, elieved him the emodiment of goodness and wisdom. All was ashes: How much more could he lose? Ron, Dumledore, the phoenix wand . . .
"Harry." She seemed to have heard his thoughts. "Listen to me. It --- it doesnt make a very nice reading ---"
"Yeah, you could say that ---"
"--- ut dont forget, Harry, this is Rita Skeeter writing."
"You did read that letter to Grindelwald, didnt you?"
"Yes, I --- I did." She hesitated, looking upset, cradling her tea in her cold hands. "I think thats the worst it. I know Bathilda thought it was all just talk, ut For the Greater Good ecame Grindelwalds slogan, his justification for all the atrocities he committed later. And . . . from that . . . it looks like Dumledore gave him the idea. They say For the Greater Good was even carved over the entrance to Nurmengard."
"Whats Nurmengard?"
"The prison Grindelwald had uilt to hold his opponents. He ended up in there himself, once Dumledore had caught him. Anyway, its --- it’s an awful thought that Dumledores ideas helped Grindelwald rise to power. But on the other hand, even Rita cant pretend that they knew each other for more than a few months one summer when they were oth really young, and ---"
"I thought youd say that," said Harry. He did not want to let his anger spill out at her, ut it was hard to keep his voice steady. "I thought youd say They were young. They were the same age as we are now. And here we are, risking our lives to fight the Dark Arts, and there he was, in a huddle with his new est friend, plotting their rise to power over the Muggles."
His temper would not remain in check much longer: He stood up and walked around, trying to work some of it off.
"Im not trying to defend what Dumledore wrote," said Hermione. "All that right to rule ruish, its Magic Is Might all over again. But Harry, his mother had just died, he was stuck alone in the house ---"
"Alone? He wasnt alone! He had his rother and sister for company, his Squi sister he was keeping locked up ---"
"I dont elieve it," said Hermione. She stood up too. "Whatever was wrong with that girl, I dont think she was a Squi. The Dumledore we knew would never, ever have allowed---"
"The Dumledore we thought we knew didnt want to conquer Muggles y force!" Harry shouted, his voice echoing across the empty hilltop, and several lackirds rose into the air, squawking and spiraling against the pearly sky.
"He changed, Harry, he changed! Its as simple as that! Maye he did elieve these things when he was seventeen, ut the whole of the rest of his life was devoted to fighting the Dark Arts! Dumledore was the one who stopped Grindelwald, the one who
always voted for Muggle protection and Muggle orn rights, who fought You-Know-Who from the start, and who died trying to ring him down!"
Ritas ook lay on the ground etween them, so that the face of Alus Dumledore smiled dolefully at oth.
"Harry, Im sorry, ut I think the real reason youre so angry is that Dumledore never told you any of this himself."
"Maye I am!" Harry ellowed, and he flung his arms over his head, hardly knowing whether he was trying to hold in his anger or protect himself from the weight of his own disillusionment. "Look what he asked from me, Hermione! Risk your life, Harry! And again! And again! And dont expect me to explain everything, just trust me lindly, trust that I know what Im doing, trust me even though I dont trust you! Never the whole truth! Never!"
His voice cracked with the strain, and they stood looking at each other in the whiteness and emptiness, and Harry felt they were as insignificant as insects eneath that wide sky.
"He loved you," Hermione whispered. "I know he loved you."
Harry dropped his arms.
"I dont know who he loved, Hermione, ut it was never me. This isnt love, the mess hes left me in. He shared a damn sight more of what he was really thinking with Gellert Grindelwald than he ever shared with me."
Harry picked up Hermiones wand, which he had dropped in the snow, and sat ack down in the entrance of the tent.
"Thanks for the tea. Ill finish the watch. You get ack in the warm."
She hesitated, ut recognized the dismissal. She picked up the ook and then walked ack past him into the tent, ut as she did so, she rushed the top of his head lightly with her hand. He closed his eyes at her touch, and hated himself for wishing that what she said was true: that Dumledore had really cared.
Chapter Nineteen
The Silver Doe
It was snowing y the time Hermione took over the watch at midnight. Harrys dreams were confused and disturing: Nagini wove in and out of them, first through a wreath of Christmas roses. He woke repeatedly, panicky, convinced that someody had called out to him in the distance, imagining that the wind whipping around the tent was footsteps or voices.
Finally he got up in the darkness and joined Hermione, who was huddled in the entrance to the tent reading A History of Magic y the light of her wand. The snow was falling thickly, and she greeted with relief his suggestion of packing up early and moving on.
"Well somewhere more sheltered," she agreed, shivering as she pulled on a sweatshirt over her pajamas. "I kept thinking I could hear people moving outside. I even though I saw someody one or twice."
Harry paused in the act of pulling on a jumper and glanced at the silent, motionless Sneakoscope on the tale.
"Im sure I imagined it," said Hermione, looking nervous. "The snow the dark, it plays tricks on your eyes.... But perhaps we ought to Disapparate under the Invisiility Cloak, just in case?"
Half an hour later, with the tent packed, Harry wearing the Horcrux, and Hermione clutching the eaded ag, they Disapparated. The usual tightness engulfed them; Harrys feet parted company with the snowy ground, then slammed hard onto what felt like frozen earth covered in leaves.
"Where are we?" he asked, peering around at the fresh mass of trees as Hermione opened the eaded ag and egan tugging out the tent poles.
"The Forest of Dean," she said, "I came camping here once with my mum and dad."
Here too snow lay on the trees all around and it was itterly cold, ut they were at least protected from the wind. They spent most of the day inside the tent, huddled for warmth around the useful right lue flames that Hermione was adept at producing, and which could e scooped up and carried in a jar. Harry felt as though he was recuperating from some rief ut severe, an impression reinforced y Hermiones solicitousness. That afternoon fresh flakes drifted down upon them, so that even their sheltered clearing had a fresh dusting of powdery snow.
After two nights of little sleep, Harrys senses seemed more alert than usual. Their escape from Godrics Hollow had een so narrow that Voldemort seemed somehow closer than efore, more threatening. As darkness drove in again Harry refused Hermiones offer to keep watch and told her to go to ed.
Harry moved an old cushion into the tent mouth and sat down, wearing all the sweaters he owned ut even so, still shivery. The darkness deepened with the passing hours until it was virtually impenetrale. He was on the point of taking out the Marauders Map, so as to watch Ginnys dot for a while, efore he rememered that it was the Christmas holidays and that she would e ack at the Burrow.
Every tiny movement seemed magnified in the vastness of the forest. Harry knew that it must e full of living creatures, ut he wished they would all remain still and silent so that he could separate their innocent scurryings and prowlings from noises that might proclaim other, sinister movements. He rememered the sound of a cloak slithering over dead leaves many years ago, and at once thought he heard it again efore mentally shaking himself. Their protective enchantments had worked for weeks; why should they reak now? And yet he could no throw off the feeling that something was different tonight.
Several times he jerked upright, his neck aching ecause he had fallen asleep, slumped at an awkward angle against the side of the tent. The night reached such a depth of velvety lackness that he might have een suspended in limo etween Disapparation and Apparation. He had just held a hand in front of his face to see whether he could make out his fingers when it happened.
A right silver light appeared right ahead of him, moving through the trees. Whatever the source, it was moving soundlessly. The light seemed simply to drift toward him.
He jumped to his feet, his voice frozen in his throat, and raised Hermiones wand. He screwed up his eyes as the light ecame linding, the trees in front of it pitch lack in silhouette, and still the thing came closer....
And then the source of the light stepped out from ehind an oak. It was a silver white doe, moon-right and dazzling, picking her way over the ground, still silent, and leaving no hoofprints in the fine powdering of snow. She stepped toward him, her eautiful head with its wide, long-lashed eyes held high.
Harry stared at the creature, filled with wonder, not at her strangeness, ut her inexplicale familiarity. He felt that he had een waiting for her to come, ut that he had forgotten, until this moment, that they had arranged to meet. His impulse to shout for Hermione, which had een so strong a moment ago, had gone. He knew, he would have staked his life on it, that she had come for him, and him alone.
They gazed at each other for several long moments and then she turned and walked away.
"No," he said, and his voice was cracked with lack of use. "Come ack!"
She continued to step delierately through the trees, and soon he rightness was striped y their thick lack trunks. For one tremling second he hesitated. Caution murmured it could e a trick, a lure, a trap. But instinct, overwhelming instinct, told him that this was not Dark Magic. He set off in pursuit.
Snow crunched eneath his feet, ut the doe made no noise as she passed through the trees, for she was nothing ut light. Deeper and deeper into the forest she led him, and Harry walked quickly, sure that when she stopped, she would allow him to approach her properly. And then she would speak and the voice would tell him what he needed to know.
At last she came to a halt. She turned her eautiful head toward him once more, and he roke into a run, a question urning in him, ut as he opened his lips to ask it, she vanished.
Though the darkness had swallowed her whole, her urnished image was still imprinted on his retinas; it oscured his vision, rightening when he lowered his eyelids, disorienting him. Now fear came: Her presence had meant safety.
"Lumos!" he whispered, and the wand-tip ignited.
The imprint of the doe faded away with every link of his eyes as he stood there, listening to the sounds of the forest, to distant crackles of twigs, soft swishes of snow. Was he aout to e attacked? Had she enticed him into an amush? Was he imagining that someody stood eyond the reach of the wandlight, watching him?
He held the wand higher. Noody ran out at him, no flash of green light urst from ehind a tree. Why, then, had she led him to this spot?
Something gleamed in the light of the wand, and Harry spun aout, ut all that was there was a small, frozen pool, its lack, cracked surface glittering as he raised his wand higher to examine it.
He moved forward rather cautiously and looked down. The ice reflected his distorted shadow and the eam of wandlight, ut deep elow the thick, misty gray carapace, something else glinted. A great silver cross...
His heart skipped into his mouth: He dropped to his knees at the pools edge and angled the wand so as to flood the ottom of the pool with as much light as possile. A
glint of deep red...It was a sword with glittering ruies in its hilt....The sword of Gryffindor was lying at the ottom of the forest pool.
Barely reathing, he stared down at it. How was this possile? How could it have come to e lying in a forest pool, this close to the place where they were camping? Had some unknown magic drawn Hermione to this spot, or was the doe, which he had taken to e a Patronus, some kind of guardian of the pool? Or had the sword een put into the pool after they had arrived, precisely ecause they were here? In which case, where was the person who wanted to pass it to Harry? Again he directed the wand at the surrounding trees and ushes, searching for a human outline, for the glint of an eye, ut he could not see anyone there. All the same, a little more fear leavened his exhilaration as he returned his attention to the sword reposing upon the ottom of the frozen pool.
He pointed the wand at the silvery shape and murmured, "Accio Sword."
It did not stir. He had not expected it to. If it had een that easy the sword would have lain on the ground for him to pick up, not in the depths of a frozen pool. He set off around the circle of ice, thinking hard aout the last time the sword had delivered itself to him. He had een in terrile danger then, and had asked for help.
"Help," he murmured, ut the sword remained upon the pool ottom, indifferent, motionless.
What was it, Harry asked himself (walking again), that Dumledore had told him the last time he had retrieved the sword? Only a true Gryffindor could have pulled that out of the hat. And what were the qualities that defined a Gryffindor? A small voice inside Harrys head answered him: Their daring nerve and chivalry set Gryffindor apart.
Harry stopped walking and let out a long sigh, his smoky reath dispersing rapidly upon the frozen air. He knew what he had to do. If he was honest with himself, he had thought it might come to this from the moment he had spotted the sword through the ice.
He glanced around at the surrounding trees again, ut was convinced now that noody was going to attack him. They had had their chance as he walked alone through the forest, had had plenty of opportunity as he examined the pool. The only reason to delay at this point was ecause the immediate prospect was so deeply uninviting.
With fumling fingers Harry started to remove his many layers of clothing. Where "chivalry" entered into this, he thought ruefully, he was not entirely sure, unless it counted as chivalrous that he was not calling for Hermione to do it in his stead.
An owl hooted somewhere as he stripped off, and he thought with a pang of Hedwig. He was shivering now, his teeth chattering horrily, and yet he continued to strip off until at last he stood there in his underwear, arefooted in the snow. He placed the pouch containing his wand, his mothers letter, the shard of Siriuss mirror, and the old Snitch on top of his clothes, then he pointed Hermiones wand at the ice.
"Diffindo."
It cracked with a sound like a ullet in the silence. The surface of the pool roke and chunks of dark ice rocked on the ruffled water. As far as Harry could judge, it was not deep, ut to retrieve the sword he would have to sumerge himself completely.
Contemplating the task ahead would not make it easier or the water warmer. He stepped to the pools edge and placed Hermiones wand on the ground still lit. Then, trying not to imagine how much colder he was aout to ecome or how violently he would soon e shivering, he jumped.
Every pore of his ody screamed in protest. The very air in his lungs seemed to freeze solid as he was sumerged to his shoulders in the frozen water. He could hardly reathe: tremling so violently the water lapped over the edges of the pool, he felt for the lade with his num feet. He only wanted to dive once.
Harry put off the moment of total sumersion from second to second, gasping and shaking, until he told himself that it must e done, gathered all his courage, and dived.
The cold was agony: It attacked him like fire. His rain itself seemed to have frozen as he pushed through the dark water to the ottom and reached out, groping for the sword. His fingers closed around the hilt; he pulled it upward.
Then something closed tight around his neck. He thought of water weeds, though nothing had rushed him as he dived, and raised his hand to free himself. It was not weed: The chain of the Horcrux had tightened and was slowly constricting his windpipe.
Harry kicked out wildly, trying to push himself ack to the surface, ut merely propelled himself into the rocky side of the pool. Thrashing, suffocating, he scraled at the strangling chain, his frozen fingers unale to loosen it, and now little lights were popping inside his head, and he was going to drown, there was nothing left, nothing he could do, and the arms that closed around his chest were surely Deaths....
Choking and retching, soaking and colder than he had ever een in his life, he came to facedown in the snow. Somewhere, close y, another person was panting and coughing and staggering around, as she had come when the snake attacked....Yet it did not sound like her, not with those deep coughs, no judging y the weight of the footsteps....
Harry had no strength to lift his head and see his saviors identity. All he could do was raise a shaking hand to his throat and feel the place where the locket had cut tightly into his flesh. It was gone. Someone had cut him free. Then a panting voice spoke from over his head.
"Are -- you -- mental?"
Nothing ut the shock of hearing that voice could have given Harry the strength to get up. Shivering violently, he staggered to his feet. There efore him stood Ron, fully dressed ut drenched to the skin, his hair plastered to his face, the sword of Gryffindor in one hand and the Horcrux dangling from its roken chain in the other.
"Why the hell," panted Ron, holding up the Horcrux, which swung ackward and forward on its shortened chain in some parody of hypnosis, "didnt you take the thing off efore you dived?"
Harry could not answer. The silver doe was nothing, nothing compared with Rons reappearance; he could not elieve it. Shuddering with cold, he caught up the pile of clothes still lying at the waters edge and egan to pull them on. As he dragged sweater after sweater over his head, Harry stared at Ron, half expecting him to have disappeared every time he lost sight of him, and yet he had to e real: He had just dived into the pool, he had saved Harrys life.
"It was y-you?" Harry said at last, his teeth chattering, his voice weaker than usual due to his near-strangulation.
"Well, yeah," said Ron, looking slightly confused.
"Y-you cast that doe?"
"What? No, of course not! I thought it was you doing it!"
"My Patronus is a stag."
"Oh yeah. I thought it looked different. No antlers."
Harry put Hagrids pouch ack around his neck, pulled on a final sweater, stooped to pick up Hermiones wand, and faced Ron again.
"How come youre here?"
Apparently Ron had hoped that this point would come up later, if at all.
"Well, Ive -- you know -- Ive come ack. If --" He cleared his throat. "You know. You still want me."
There was a pause, in which the suject of Rons departure seemed to rise like a wall etween them. Yet he was here. He had returned. He had just saved Harrys life.
Ron looked down at his hands. He seemed momentarily surprised to see the things he was holding.
"Oh yeah, I got it out," he said, rather unnecessarily, holding up the sword for Harrys inspection. "Thats why you jumped in, right?"
"Yeah," said Harry. "But I dont understand. How did you get here? How did you find us?"
"Long story," said Ron. "Ive een looking for you for hours, its a ig forest, isnt it? And I was just thinking Id have to go kip under a tree and wait for morning when I saw that dear coming and you following."
"You didnt see anyone else?"
"No," said Ron. "I --"
But he hesitated, glancing at two trees growing close together some yards away.
"I did think I saw something move over there, ut I was running to the pool at the time, ecause youd gone in and you hadnt come up, so I wasnt going to make a detour to -- hey!"
Harry was already hurrying to the place that Ron had indicated. The two oaks grew close together; there was a gap of only a few inches etween the trunks at eye level, an ideal place to see ut not e seen. The ground around the roots, however, was free of snow, and Harry could see no sign of footprints. He walked ack to where Ron stood waiting, still holding the sword and the Horcrux.
"Anything there?" Ron asked.
"No," said Harry.
"So how did the sword get in that pool?"
"Whoever cast the Patronus must have put it there."
They oth looked at the ornate silver sword, its ruied hilt glinting a little in the light from Hermiones wand.
"You reckon this is the real one?" asked Ron.
"One way to find out, isnt there?" said Harry.
The Horcrux was still swinging from Rons hand. The locket was twitching slightly. Harry knew that the thing inside it was agitated again. It had sensed the presence of the sword and had tried to kill Harry rather than let him possess it. Now was not the time for long discussions; now was the moment to destroy once and for all. Harry looked around, holding Hermiones wand high, and saw the place: a flattish rock lying in the shadow of a sycamore tree.
"Come here." he said and he led the way, rushed snow from the rocks surface, and held out his hand for the Horcrux. When Ron offered the sword, however, Harry shook his head.
"No you should do it."
"Me?" said Ron, looking shocked. "Why?"
"Because you got the sword out of the pool. I think its supposed to e you."
He was not eing kind or generous. As certainly as he had known that the doe was enign, he knew that Ron had to e the one to wield the sword. Dumledore had at least taught Harry something aout certain kinds of magic, of the incalculale power of certain acts.
"Im going to open it," said Harry, "and you will sta it. Straightaway okay? Because whatevers in there will put up a fight. The it of Riddle in the Diary tried to kill me."
"How are you going to open it?" asked Ron. He looked terrified
"Im going to ask it to open, using Parseltongue," said Harry. The answer came so readily to his lips that thought that he had always known it deep down: Perhaps it had taken his recent encounter with Nagini to make him realize it. He looked at the serpentine S, inlaid with glittering green stones: It was easy to visualize it as a miniscule snake, curled upon the cold rock.
"No!" said Ron. "Dont open it! Im serious!"
"Why not?" asked Harry. "Lets get rid of the damn thing, its een months --"
"I cant, Harry, Im serious -- you do it --"
"But why?"
"Because that things ad for me!" said Ron, acking away from the locket on the rock. "I cant handle it! Im not making excuses, for what I was like, ut it affects me worse than it affects you and Hermione, it made me think stuff -- stuff that I was thinking anyway, ut it made everything worse. I cant explain it, and then Id take it off and Id get my head straight again, and then Id have to put the effing thing ack on -- I cant do it Harry!"
He had acked away, the sword dragging at his side, shaking his head.
"You can do it," said Harry, "you can! Youve just got the sword, I know its supposed to e you who uses it. Please just get rid of it Ron."
The sound of his name seemed to act like a stimulant. Ron swallowed, then still reathing hard through his long nose, moved ack toward the rock.
"Tell me when," he croaked.
"On three," said Harry, looking ack down at the locket and narrowing his eyes, concentrating on the letter S, imagining a serpent, while the contents of the locket rattled like a trapped cockroach. It would have een easy to pity it, except that the cut around Harrys neck still urned.
"One . . . two . . . three . . .open."
The last word came as a hiss and a snarl and the golden doors of the locket swung wide open with a little click.
Behind oth of the glass windows within linked a living eye, dark and handsome as Tom Riddles eyes had een efore he turned them scarlet and slit-pupiled
"Sta," said Harry, holding the locket steady on the rock.
Ron raised the sword in his shaking hands: The point dangled over the frantically swiveling eyes, and Harry gripped the locket tightly, racing himself, already imagining lood pouring from the empty windows.
Then a voice hissed from out the Horcrux.
"I have seen your heart, and it is mine."
"Dont listen to it!" Harry said harshly. "Sta it!"
"I have seen your dreams, Ronald Weasley, and I have seen your fears. All you desire is possile, ut all that you dread is also possile...."
"Sta!" shouted Harry, his voice echoed off the surrounding trees, the sword point tremled, and Ron gazed down into Riddles eyes.
"Least loved, always, y the mother who craved a daughter . . . Least loved, now, y the girl who prefers your friend . . . Second est, always, eternally overshadowed . . ."
"Ron, sta it now!" Harry ellowed: He could feel the locket quivering in the grip and was scared of what was coming. Ron raised the sword still higher, and as he did so, Riddles eyes gleamed scarlet.
Out of the lockets two windows, out of the eyes, there loomed like two grotesque ules, the heads of Harry and Hermione, weirdly distorted.
Ron yelled in shock and acked away as the figures lossomed out of the locket, first chests, then waists, then legs, until they stood in the locket, side y side like trees with a common root, swaying over Ron and the real Harry, who had snatched his fingers away from the locket as it urned, suddenly, white-hot.
"Ron!" he shouted, ut the Riddle-Harry was now speaking with Voldemorts voice and Ron was gazing, mesmerized, into its face.
"Why return? We were etter without you, happier without you, glad of your asence.... We laughed at your stupidity, your cowardice, your presumption--"
"Presumption!" echoed the Riddle-Hermione, who was more eautiful and yet more terrile than the real Hermione: She swayed, cackling, efore Ron, who looked horrified, yet transfixed, the sword hanging pointlessly at his side. "Who could look at you, who would ever look at you, eside Harry Potter? What have you ever done, compared with the Chosen One? What are you, compared with the Boy Who Lived?"
"Ron, sta it, STAB IT!" Harry yelled, ut Ron did not move. His eyes were wide, and the Riddle-Harry and the Riddle-Hermione were reflected in them, their hair swirling like flames, their eyes shining red, their voices lifted in an evil duet.
"Your mother confessed," sneered Riddle-Harry, while Riddle-Hermione jeered, "that she would have preferred me as a son, would e glad to exchange..."
"Who wouldnt prefer him, what woman would take you, you are nothing, nothing, nothing to him," crooned Riddle-Hermione, and she stretched like a snake and entwined herself around Riddle-Harry, wrapping him in a close emrace: Their lips met.
On the ground in front of them, Rons face filled with anguish. he raised the sword high, his arms shaking.
"Do it, Ron!" Harry yelled.
Ron looked toward him, and Harry thought he saw a trace of scarlet in his eyes.
"Ron --?"
The sword flashed, plunged: Harry threw himself out of the way, there as a clang of metal and a long, drawn-out scream. Harry whirled around, slipping in the snow, wand held ready to defend himself, ut there was nothing to fight.
The monstrous versions of himself and Hermione were gone: There was only Ron, standing there with the sword held slackly in his hand, looking down at the shattered remains of the locket on the flat rock.
Slowly, Harry walked ack to him, hardly knowing what to say or do. Ron was reathing heavily: His eyes were no longer red at all, ut their normal lue: they were also wet.
Harry stooped, pretending he had not seen, and picked up the roken Horcrux. Ron had pierced the glass in oth windows: Riddles eyes were gone, and the stained silk lining of the locket was smoking slightly. The thing that had lived in the Horcrux had vanished; torturing Ron had een its final act. The sword clanged as Ron dropped it. He had sunk to his knees, his head in his arms. He was shaking, ut not, Harry realized, from cold. Harry crammed the roken locket into his pocket, knelt down eside Ron, and placed a hand cautiously on his shoulder. He took it as a good sign that Ron did not throw it off.
"After you left," he said in a low voice, grateful for the fact that Rons face was hidden, "she cried for a week. Proaly longer, only she didnt want me to see. There were loads of nights when we never even spoke to each other. With you gone..."
He could not finish; it was now that Ron was here again that Harry fully realized how much his asence had cost them.
"Shes like my sister," he went on. "I love her like a sister and I reckon that she feels the same way aout me. Its always een like that. I thought you knew."
Ron did not respond, ut turned his face away from Harry and wiped his nose noisily on his sleeve. Harry got to his feet again and walked to where Rons enormous rucksack lay yards away, discarded as Ron had run toward the pool to save Harry from drowning. He hoisted it onto his own ack and walked ack to Ron, who clamered to his feet as Harry approached, eyes loodshot ut otherwise composed.
"Im sorry," he said in a thick voice. "Im sorry I left. I know I was a -- a --"
He looked around at the darkness, as if hoping a ad enough word would swoop down upon him and claim him.
"Youve sort of made up for it tonight," said Harry. "Getting the sword. Finishing off the Horcrux. Saving my life."
"That makes me sound a lot cooler than I was," Ron mumled.
"Stuff like that always sounds cooler than it really was" said Harry. "Ive een trying to tell you that for years."
Simultaneously they walked forward and hugged, Harry gripping the still-sopping ack of Rons jacket.
"And now," said Harry as they roke apart, "all weve got to do is find that tent again."
But it was not difficult. Though the walk through the dark forest with the doe had seemed lengthy, with Ron y his side, the journey ack seemed to take a surprisingly short time. Harry could not wait to wake Hermione, and it was with quickening excitement that he entered the tent, Ron lagging a little ehind him.
It was gloriously warm after the pool and the forest, the only illumination the lueell flames still shimmering in a owl on the floor. Hermione was fast asleep, curled up under her lankets, and did not move until Harry had said her name several times.
"Hermione!"
She stirred, then sat up quickly, pushing her hair out of her face.
"Whats wrong? Harry? Are you all right?"
"Its okay, everythings fine. More than fine, Im great. Theres someone here."
"What do you mean? Who --?"
She saw Ron, who stood there holding the sword and dripping onto the threadare carpet. Harry acked into a shadowy corner, slipped off Rons rucksack, and attempted to lend in with the canvas.
Hermione slid out of her unk and moved like a sleepwalker toward Ron, her eyes upon his pale face. She stopped right in front of him, her lips slightly parted, her eyes wide. Ron gave a weak hopeful smile and half raised his arms.
Hermione launched herself forward and started punching every inch of him that she could reach.
"Ouch -- ow -- gerroff! What the --? Hermione -- OW!"
"You -- complete -- arse -- Ronald -- Weasley!"
She punctuated every word with a low: Ron acked away, shielding his head as Hermione advanced.
"You -- crawl -- ack -- here -- after -- weeks -- and -- weeks -- oh, wheres my wand?"
She looked as though ready to wrestle it out of Harrys hands and he reacted instinctively.
"Protego!"
The invisile shield erupted etween Ron and Hermione. The force of it knocked her ackward onto the floor. Spitting hair out of her mouth, she lept up again.
"Hermione!" said Harry. "Calm --"
"I will not calm down!" she screamed. Never efore had he seen her lose control like this; she looked quite demented. "Give me ack my wand! Give it ack to me!"
"Hermione, will you please --"
"Dont you tell me what do, Harry Potter!" she screeched. "Dont you dare! Give it ack now! And YOU!"
She was pointing at Ron in dire accusation: It was like a malediction, and Harry could not lame Ron for retreating several steps.
"I cam running after you! I called you! I egged you to come ack" "I know," Ron said, "Hermione, Im sorry, Im really --"
"Oh, youre sorry!"
She laughed a high-pitched, out-of-control sound; Ron looked at Harry for help, ut Harry merely grimaced his helplessness.
"You came ack after weeks -- weeks -- and you think its all going to e all right if you just say sorry?"
"Well, what else can I say?" Ron shouted, and Harry was glad that Ron was fighting ack.
"Oh, I dont know!" yelled Hermione with awful sarcasm. "Rack your rains, Ron, that should only take a couple of seconds --"
"Hermione," interjected Harry, who considered this a low low, "he just saved my --"
"I dont care!" she screamed. "I dont care what hes done! Weeks and weeks, we could have een dead for all he knew --"
"I knew you werent dead!" ellowed Ron, drowning her voice for the first time, and approaching as close as he could with the Shield Charm etween them. "Harrys all over the Prophet, all over the radio, theyre looking for you everywhere, all these rumors and mental stories, I knew Id hear straight off if you were dead, you dont know what its een like --"
"What its een like for you??
Her voice was not so shrill only ats would e ale to hear it soon, ut she had reached a level of indignation that rendered her temporarily speechless, and Ron seized his opportunity.
"I wanted to come ack the minute Id Disapparated, ut I walked straight into a gang of Snatchers, Hermione, and I couldnt go anywhere!" "A gang of what?" asked Harry, as Hermione threw herself down into a chair with her arms and legs crossed so tightly it seemed unlikely that she would unravel them for several years.
"Snatchers," said Ron. "Theyre everywhere -- gangs trying to earn gold y rounding up Muggle-orns and lood traitors, theres a reward from the Ministry for everyone captured. I was on my own and I look like I might e school age; they got really excited, thought I was a Muggle-orn in hiding. I had to talk fast to get out of eing dragged to the Ministry."
"What did you say to them?" "Told them I was Stan Shunpike. First person I could think of." "And they elieved that?" "They werent the rightest. One of them was definitely part troll, the smell of him...."
Ron glanced at Hermione, clearly hopeful she might soften at this small instance of humor, ut her expression remained stony aove her tightly knotted lims.
"Anyway, they had a row aout whether I was Stan or not. It was a it pathetic to e honest, ut there were still five of them and only one of me, and theyd taken my wand. Then two of them got into a fight and while the others were distracted I managed to hit the one holding me in the stomach, graed his wand, Disarmed the loke holding mine, and Disapparated. I didnt do it so well. Splinched myself again" -- Ron held up his right hand to show two missing fingernails: Hermione raised her eyerows coldly -- "and I
came out miles from where you were. By the time I got ack to that it of riverank where wed een ... you were gone."
"Gosh, what a gripping story," Hermione said in the lofty voice she adopted when wishing to wound. "You must have een simply terrified. Meanwhile we went to Godrics Hollow and, lets think, what happened there, Harry? Oh yes, You-Know-Whos snake turned up, it nearly killed oth of us, and then You-Know-Who himself arrived and missed us y aout a second." "What?" Ron said, gaping from her to Harry, ut Hermione ignored him.
"Imagine losing fingernails, Harry! That really puts our sufferings into perspective, doesnt it?" "Hermione," said Harry quietly, "Ron just saved my life."
She appeared not to have heard him.
"One thing I would like to know, though," she said, fixing her eyes on a spot a foot over Rons head. "How exactly did you find us tonight? Thats important. Once we know, well e ale to make sure were not visited y anyone else we dont want to see."
Ron glared at her, then pulled a small silver oject from his jeans pocket.
"This."
She had to look at Ron to see what he was showing them.
"The Deluminator?" she asked, so surprised she forgot to look cold and fierce.
"It doesnt just turn the lights on and off," said Ron. "I dont know how it works or why it happened then and not any other time, ecause Ive een wanting to come ack ever since I left. But I was listening to the radio really early on Christmas morning and I heard ... I heard you."
He was looking at Hermione.
"You heard me on the radio?" she asked incredulously.
"No, I heard you coming out of my pocket. Your voice," he held up the Deluminator again, "came out of this."
"And what exactly did I say?" asked Hermione, her tone somewhere etween skepticism and curiosity.
"My name. Ron. And you said ... something aout a wand...."
Hermione turned a fiery shade of scarlet. Harry rememered: it had een the first time Wons name had een said aloud y either of them since the day he had left; Hermione had mentioned it when talking aout repairing Harrys wand.
"So I took it out," Ron went on, looking at the Deluminator, "and it didnt seem different or anything, ut I was sure Id heard you. So I clicked it. And the light went out in my room, ut another light appeared right outside the window."
Ron raised his empty hand and pointed in front of him, his eyes focused on something neither Harry nor Hermione could see.
"It was a all of light, kind of pulsing, and luish, like that light you get around a Portkey, you know?"
"Yeah," said Harry and Hermione together automatically.
"I knew this was it," said Ron. "I graed my stuff and packed it, then I put on my rucksack and went out into the garden.
"The little all of light was hovering there, waiting for me, and when I came out it oed along a it and I followed it ehind the shed and then it ... well, it went inside me."
"Sorry?" said Harry, sure he had not heard correctly.
"It sort of floated toward me," said Ron, illustrating the movement with his free index finger, "right to my chest, and then -- it just went straight through. It was here," he touched a point close to his heard, "I could feel it, it was hot. And once it was inside me, I knew what I was supposed to do. I knew it would take me where I needed to go. So I Disapparated and came out on the side of a hill. There was snow everywhere...."
"We were there," said Harry. "We spent two nights there, and the second night I kept thinking I could hear someone moving around in the dark and calling out!" "Yeah, well, that wouldve een me," said Ron. "Your protective spells work, anyway, ecause I couldnt see you and I couldnt hear you. I was sure you were around, though, so in the end I got in my sleeping ag and waited for one of you to appear. I thought youd have to show yourselves when you packed up the tent."
"No, actually," said Hermione. "Weve een Disapparating under the Invisiility Cloak as an extra precaution. And we left really early, ecause as Harry says, wed heard someody lundering around."
"Well, I stayed on that hill all day," said Ron. "I kept hoping youd appear. But when it started to get dark I knew I must have missed you, so I clicked the Deluminator again, the
lue light came out and went inside me, and I Disapparated and arrived here in these woods. I still couldnt see you, so I just had to hope one of you would show yourselves in the end -- and Harry did. Well, I saw the doe first, oviously."
"You saw the what?" said Hermione sharply.
They explained what had happened and as the story of the silver doe and the sword in the pool unfolded, Hermione frowned form one to the other of them, concentrating so hard she forgot to keep her lims locked together.
"But it must have een a Patronus!" she said. "Couldnt you see who was casting it? Didnt you see anyone? And it led you to the sword! I cant elieve this! Then what happened?"
Ron explained how he had watched Harry jump into the pool, and had waited for him to resurface; how he had realized that something was wrong, dived in, and saved Harry, then returned for the sword. He got as far as the opening of the locket, then hesitated, and Harry cut in.
"-- and Ron staed it with the sword."
"And ... and it went? Just like that?" she whispered.
"Well, it -- it screamed," said Harry with half a glance at Ron. "Here."
He threw the locket into her lap; gingerly she picked it up and examined its punctured windows.
Deciding that it was at last safe to do so, Harry removed the Shield Charm with a wave of Hermiones wand and turned to Ron.
"Did you just say now that you got away from the snatchers with a spare wand?"
"What?" said Ron, who had een watching Hermione examining the locket. "Oh -- oh yeah."
He tugged open a uckle on his rucksack and pulled a short dark wand out of his pocket. "Here, I figured its always handy to have a ackup."
"You were right," said Harry, holding out his hand. "Mines roken."
"Youre kidding?" Ron said, ut at that moment Hermione got to her feet, and he looked apprehensive again.
Hermione put the vanquished Horcrux into the eaded ag, then climed ack into her ed and settled down without another word.
Ron passed Harry the new wand.
"Aout the est you could hope for, I think," murmured Harry.
"Yeah," said Ron. "Couldve een worse. Rememer those irds she set on me?"
"I still havent ruled it out," came Hermiones muffled voice from eneath her lankets, ut Harry saw Ron smiling slightly as he pulled his maroon pajamas out of his rucksack.
Chapter Twenty
Xenophilius Lovegood
Harry had not expected Hermiones anger to aate over night and was therefore unsurprised that she communicated mainly y dirty looks and pointed silences the next morning. Ron responded y maintaining an unnaturally somer demeanor in her presence as an outward sign of continuing remorse. In fact, when all three of them were together Harry felt like the only non-mourner at a poorly attended funeral. During those few moments he spent alone with Harry, however (collecting water and searching the undergrowth for mushrooms). Ron ecame shamelessly cheery. "Someone helped us," he kept saying, "Someone sent that doe, Someones on our side, One Horcrux down, mate!" Bolstered y the destruction of the locket they set to deating the possile locations of the other Horcruxes and even though they had discussed the matter so often efore. Harry felt optimistic, certain that more reakthroughs would succeed the first. Hermiones sulkiness could not mar his uoyant spirits; The sudden upswing in their fortunes, the appearance of the mysterious due, the recovery of Gryffindor’s sword, and aove all, Rons return made Harry so happy that it was quite difficult to maintain a straight face. Late in the afternoon he and Ron escaped Hermiones aleful presence again and under the pretense of scouring the are hedges for nonexistent lackerries, they continued their ongoing exchange of news. Harry had finally managed to tell Ron the whole story of his and Hermiones various wanderings, right up to the full story of what had happened at Godrics Hollow; Ron was now filling Harry in on everything he had discovered aout the wider Wizarding world during his weeks away.
"... and how did you find out aout the Taoo?" he asked Harry after explaining the many desperate attempts of Muggle-orns to evade the Ministry." "The what?" "You and Hermione have stopped saying You-Know-Whos name!" "Oh, yeah, Well, its just a ad hait weve slipped into," said Harry. "But I havent got a prolem calling him V ---" "NO!" roared Ron, causing Harry to jump into the hedge and Hermione (nose uried in a ook at the tent entrance) to scowl over at them. "Sorry," said Ron, wrenching Harry ack out of the ramles, "ut the names een jinxed, Harry, thats how they track people! Using his name reaks protective enchantments, it causes some kind of magical disturance --- its how they found us in Tottenham Court Road!" "Because we used his *name*?" "Exactly! Youve got to give them credit, it makes sense. It was only people who were serious aout standing up to him, like Dumledore, who even dared use it. Now theyve put a Taoo on it, anyone who says it is trackale --- quick-and-easy way to find Order memers! They nearly got Kingsley ---" "Youre kidding?" "Yeah, a unch of Death Eaters cornered him, Bill said ut he fought his way out. Hes on the run now just like us." Ron scratched his chin thoughtfully with the end of his wand. "You dont reckon Kingsley could have sent that doe?" "His Patronus is a lynx, we saw it at the wedding, rememer?" "Oh yeah..." They moved farther along the hedge, away from the tent and Hermione. "Harry... you dont reckon it couldve een Dumledore?" "Dumledore what?" Ron looked a little emarrassed, ut said in a low voice, "Dumledore ... the doe? I mean," Ron was watching Harry out of the corners of his eyes, "he had the real sword last, didnt he?
Harry did not laugh at Ron, ecause he understood too well the longing ehind the question. The idea that Dumledore had managed to come ack to them, that he was watching over them, would have inexpressily comforting. He shook his head. "Dumledore’s dead," he said. "I saw it happen, I saw the ody. Hes definitely gone. Anyway his Patronus was a phoenix, not a doe" "Patronuses can change, though cant they?" said Ron, "Tonks’s changed didnt it?" Yeah, ut if Dumledore was alive, why wouldnt he show himself? Why wouldnt he just hand us the sword? "Search me," said Ron. "Same reason he didnt give it to you while he was alive? Same reason he left you an old Snitch and Hermione a ook of kids stories?" "Which is what?" asked Harry, turning to look Ron full in the face desperate for the answer. "I dunno," said Ron. "Sometimes Ive thought, when Ive een a it hacked off, he was having a laugh or --- or he just wanted to make it more difficult, But I dont think so, not anymore. He knew what he was doing when he gave me the Deluminator, didnt he? He -- well," Rons ears turned right red and he ecame engrossed in a tuft of grass at his feet, which he prodded with his toe, "he mustve known Id run out on you." "No," Harry corrected him. "He mustve known youd always want to come ack." Ron looked grateful, ut still awkward. Partly to change the suject, Harry said, "Speaking of Dumledore, have you heard what Skeeter wrote aout him?" "Oh yeah," said Ron at once, "people are talking aout it quite a lot. Course, if things were different itd e huge news, Dumledore eing pals with Grindelwald, ut now its just something to laugh aout for people who didnt like Dumledore, and a it of a slap in the face for everyone who thought he was such a good loke. I dont know that its such a ig deal, though. He was really young when they --" "Our age," said Harry, just as he had retorted to Hermione, and something in his face seemed to decide Ron against pursuing the suject. A large spider sat in the middle of a frosted we in the ramles. Harry took aim at it with the wand Ron had given him the previous night, which
Hermione had since condescended to examine, and had decided was made of lackthorn. "*Engorgio*" "The spider gave a little shiver, ouncing slightly in the we. Harry tried again. This time the spider grew slightly larger. "Stop that," said Ron sharply, " Im sorry I said Dumledore was young, okay?" Harry had forgotten Rons hatred of spiders. "Sorry --- *Reducio*" The spider did not shrink. Harry looked down at the lackthorn wand. Every minor spell he had cast with it so far that day had seemed less powerful than those he had produced with his phoenix wand. The new one felt intrusively unfamiliar, like having someody elses hand sewn to the end of his arm. "You just need to practice," said Hermione, who had approached them noiselessly from ehind and had stood watching anxiously as Harry tried to enlarge and reduce the spider. "It’s all a matter of confidence Harry." He knew why she wanted it to e all right; She still felt guilty aout reaking his wand. He it ack the retort that sprung to his lips, that she could take the lackthorn wand if she thought it made no difference, and he would have hers instead. Keen for them all to e friends again, however, he agreed; ut when Ron gave Hermione a tentative smile, she stalked off and vanished ehind her ook once more. All three of them returned to the tent when darkness fell, and Harry took first watch. Sitting in the entrance, he tried to make the lackthorn wand levitate small stones at his feet; ut his magic still seemed clumsier and less powerful than it had done efore. Hermione was lying on her unk reading, while Ron, after many nervous glances up at her, had taken a small wooden wireless out of his rucksack and started to try to tune it. "Theres this one program," he told Harry in a low voice, "that tells the news like it really is. All the others are on You-Know-Whos side and are following the Ministry line, ut this one ... you wait till you hear it, its great. Only they cant do it every night, they have to keep changing locations in case theyre raided and you need a password to tune in ... Troule is, I missed the last one..."
He drummed lightly on the top of the radio with his wand muttering random words under his reath. He threw Hermione many covert glances, plainly fearing an angry outurst, ut for all the notice she took of him he might not have een there. For ten minutes or so Ron tapped and muttered, Hermione turned the pages of her ook, and Harry continued to practice with the lackthorn wand. Finally Hermione climed down from her unk. Ron ceased his tapping at once. "If its annoying you, Ill stop!" he told Hermione nervously. Hermione did not deign to respond, ut approached Harry. "We need to talk," she said. He looked at the ook still clutched in her hand. It was * The Life and Lies of Alus Dumledore.* "What?" he said apprehensively. It flew through his mind that there was a chapter on him in there; he was not sure he felt up to hearing Ritas version of his relationship with Dumledore. Hermiones answer however, was completely unexpected. "I want to go and see Xenophilius Lovegood." He stared at her. "Sorry?"
"Xenophilius Lovegood, Luna’s father. I want to go and talk to him!"
"er - why?"
She took a deep reath, as though racing herself, and said, "It’s that mark, the mark in Beedle the Bard. Look at this!"
She thrust The Life and Lies of Alus Dumledore under Harry’s unwilling eyes and saw a photograph of the original letter that Dumledore had written Grindelwald, with Dumledore’s familiar thin, slanting handwriting. He hated seeing asolute proof that Dumledore really had written those words, that they had not een Rita’s invention.
"The signature," said Hermione. "Look at the signature, Harry!"
He oeyed. For a moment he had no idea what she was talking aout, ut, looking more closely with the aid of his lit wand, he saw that Dumledore had replaced the A of Alus with a tiny version of the same triangular mark inscried upon The Tales of Beedle the Bard.
"Er - what are you -- ?" said Ron tentatively, ut Hermione quelled him with a look and turned ack to Harry.
"It keeps cropping up, doesn’t it?" she said. "I know Viktor said it was Grindelwald’s mark, ut it was definitely on that old grave in Godric’s Hollow, and the
dates on the headstone were long efore Grindelwald came along! And now this! Well, we can’t ask Dumledore or Grindelwald what it means - I don’t even know whether Grindelwald’s still alive - ut we can ask Mr. Lovegood. He was wearing the symol at the wedding. I’m sure this is important, Harry!"
Harry did not answer immediately. He looked into her intense, eager face and then out into the surrounding darkness, thinking. After a long pause he said, "Hermione, we don’t need another Godric’s Hollow. We talked ourselves into going there, and -"
"But it keeps appearing, Harry! Dumledore left me The Tales of Beedle the Bard, how do you know we’re not supposed to find out aout the sign?"
"Here we go again!" Harry felt slightly exasperated. "We keep trying to convince ourselves Dumledore left us secret signs and clues -"
"The Deluminator turned out to e pretty useful," piped up Ron. "I think Hermione’s right, I think we ought to go and see Lovegood."
Harry threw him a dark look. He was quite sure that Ron’s support of Hermione had little to do with a desire to know the meaning of the triangular rune.
"It won’t e like Godric’s Hollow," Ron added, "Lovegood’s on your side, Harry, The Quiler’s een for you all along, it keeps telling everyone they’ve got to help you!"
"I’m sure this is important!" said Hermione earnestly.
"But don’t you think if it was, Dumledore would have told me aout it efore he died?"
"Maye . . . maye it’s something you need to find out for yourself," said Hermione with a faint air of clutching at straws.
"Yeah," said Ron sycophantically, "that makes sense."
"No, it doesn’t," snapped Hermione, "ut I still think we ought to talk to Mr. Lovegood. A symol that links Dumledore, Grindelwald, and Godric’s Hollow? Harry, I’m sure we ought to know aout this!"
"I think we should vote on it," said Ron. "Those in favor of going to see Love good -"
His hand flew into the air efore Hermione’s. Her lips quivered suspiciously as she raised her own.
"Outvoted, Harry, sorry," said Ron, clapping him on the ack.
"Fine," said Harry, half amused, half irritated. "Only, once we’ve seen Lovegood, let’s try and look for some more Horcruxes, shall we? Where do the Lovegood’s live, anyway? Do either of you know?
"Yeah, they’re not far from my place," said Ron. "I dunno exactly where, ut Mum and Dad always point toward the hills whenever they mention them. Shouldn’t e hard to find."
When Hermione had returned to her unk, Harry lowered his voice.
"You only agreed to try and get ack in her good ooks."
"All’s fair in love and war," said Ron rightly, "and this is a it of oth. Cheer up, it’s the Christmas holidays, Luna’ll e home!"
They had an excellent view of the village of Ottery St. Catchopole from the reezy hillside to which they Disapparated next morning. From their high vantage point the village looked like a collection of toy houses in the great slanting shafts of sunlight stretching to earth in the reaks etween clouds. They stood for a minute or two looking toward the Burrow, their hands shadowing their eyes, ut all they could make out were
the high hedges and trees of the orchard, which afforded the crooked little house protection from Muggle eyes.
"It’s weird, eing this near, ut not going to visit," said Ron.
"Well, it’s not like you haven’t just seen them. You were there for Christmas," said Hermione coldly.
"I wasn’t at the Burrow!" said Ron with an incredulous laugh. "Do you think I was going to go ack there and tell them all I’d walked out on you? Yeah, Fred and George would’ve een great aout it. And Ginny, she’d have een really understanding."
"But where have you een, then?" asked Hermione, surprised.
"Bill and Fleur’s new place. Shell cottage. Bill’s always een decent to me. He - he wasn’t impressed when he heard what I’d done, ut he didn’t go on aout it. He knew I was really sorry. None of the rest of the family know I was there. Bill told Mum he and Fleur weren’t going home for Christmas ecause they wanted to spend it alone. You know, first holiday after they were married. I don’t think Fleur minded. You know how much she hates Celestina Wareck."
Ron turned his ack on the Burrow.
"Let’s try up here," he said, leading the way over the top of the hill.
They walked for a few hours, Harry, at Hermione’s insistence, hidden eneath the Invisiility Cloak. The cluster of low hills appeared to e uninhaited apart from one small cottage, which seemed deserted.
"Do you think it’s theirs, and they’ve gone away for Christmas?" said Hermione, peering through the window at a neat little kitchen with geraniums on the windowsill. Ron snorted.
"Listen, I’ve got a feeling you’d e ale to tell who lived there if you looked through the Lovegoods’ window. Let’s try the next lot of hills."
So they Disapparated a few miles farther north.
"Aha!" shouted Ron, as the wind whipped their hair and clothes. Ron was pointing upward, toward the top of the hill on which they had appeared, where a most strange-looking house rose vertically against the sky, a great lack cylinder with a ghostly moon hanging ehind it in the afternoon sky. "That’s got to e Luna’s house, who else would live in a place like that? It looks like a giant rook!"
"It’s nothing like a ird," said Hermione, frowning at the tower.
"I was talking aout a chess rook," said Ron. "A castle to you."
Ron’s legs were the longest and he reached the top of the hill first. When Harry and Hermione caught up with him, panting and clutching stitches in their sides, they found him grinning roadly.
"It’s theirs," said Ron. "Look."
Three hand-painted signs had een tacked to a roke-down gate. The first read,
THE QUIBBLER. EDITOR, X. LOVEGOOD
the second,
PICK YOUR OWN MISTLETOE
the third,
KEEP OFF THE DIRIGIBLE PLUMS
The gate creaked as they opened it. The zigzagging path leading to the front door was overgrown with a variety of odd plants, including a ush covered in orange radishlike fruit Luna sometimes wore as earrings. Harry thought he recognized a Snargaluff and gave the wizened stump a wide erth. Two aged cra apple trees, ent with the wind, stripped of leaves ut still heavy with erry-sized red fruits and ushy crowns of white eaded mistletoe, stood sentinel on either side of the front door. A little owl with a slightly flattened hawklike head peered down at them from one of the ranches.
"You’d etter take off the Invisiility Cloak, Harry," said Hermione. "It’s you Mr. Lovegood wants to help, not us."
He did as she suggested, handing her the Cloak to stow in the eaded ag. She then rapped three times on the thick lack door, which was studded with iron nails and ore a knocker shaped like an eagle.
Barely ten seconds passed, then the door was flung open and there stood Xenophilius Lovegood, arefoot and wearing what appeared to e a stained nightshirt. His long white candyfloss hair was dirty and unkempt. Xenophilius had een positively dapper at Bill and Fleurs wedding y comparison. "What? What is it? Who are you? What do you want?" he cried in a high-pitched, querulous voice, looking first at Hermione, then at Ron, and finally at Harry, upon which his mouth fell open in a perfect, comical O. "Hello, Mr. Lovegood," said Harry, holding out his hand, "Im Harry, Harry Potter." Xenophilius did not take Harrys hand, although the eye that was not pointing inward at his nose slid straight to the scar on Harrys forehead. "Would it e okay if we came in?" asked Harry. "Theres something wed like to ask you." "I . . . Im not sure thats advisale," whispered Xenophilius, He swallowed and cast a quick look around the garden. "Rather a shock . . . My word . . . I . . . Im afraid I dont really think I ought to ---" "It wont take long" said Harry, slightly disappointed y this less-than-warm welcome. "I --- oh, all right then. Come in, quickly, Quickly!" They were arely over the threshold when Xenophilius slammed the door shut ehind them, They were standing in the most peculiar kitchen Harry had ever seen. The room was perfectly circular, so that he felt like eing inside a giant pepper pot. Everything was curved to fit the walls - the stove, the sink, and the cupoards - and all of it had een painted with flowers, insects, and irds in right primary colors. Harry thought he recognized Lunas styles. The effect in such and enclosed space, was slightly overwhelming. In the middle of the floor, a wrought-iron spiral staircase ld to the upper levels. There was a great deal of clattering and anging coming from overhead: Harry wondered what Luna could e doing. "Youd etter come up." said Xenophilius, still looking extremely uncomfortale, and he led the way. The room aove seemed to e a comination of living room and workplace,
and as such, was even more cluttered than the kitchen. Though much smaller and entirely round, the room somewhat resemled the Room of Requirement on the unforgettale occasion that it had transformed itself into a gigantic layrinth comprised of centuries of hidden ojects. There were piles upon piles of ooks and papers on every surface. Delicately made models of creatures Harry did not recognize, all flapping wings or snapping jaws, hung from the ceiling. Luna was not there: The thing that was making such a racket was a wooden oject covered in magically turning cogs and wheels, It looked like the izarre offspring of a workench and a set of shelves, ut after a moment Harry deduced that it was an old-fashioned printing press, due to the fact that it was churning out Quilers. "Excuse me," said Xenophilius, and he strode over to the machine, seized gruily talecloth from eneath an immense numer of ooks and papers, which all tumled onto the floor, and threw it over the press, somewhat muffling the loud angs and clatters. He then faced Harry. "Why have you come here?" Before Harry could speak, however, Hermione let out a small cry of shock. "Mr. Lovegood - whats that?" See was pointing at an enormous, gray spiral horn, not unlike that of a unicorn, which had een mounted on the wall, protruding several feet into the room. "It is the horn of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack," said Xenophilius. "No it isnt!" said Hermione. "Hermione," muttered Harry, emarrassed, "nows not the moment -" "But Harry, its an Erumpent horn! Its a Class B Tradeale Material and its an extraordinary dangerous thing to have in a house!" "Howd you know its an Erumpent horn?" asked Ron, edging away from the horn as fast as he could, given the extreme clutter of the room. "Theres a description in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them! Mr. Lovegood, you need to get rid of it straightaway, dont you know it can explode at the slightest touch?" "The Crumple Horned Snorkack" said Xenophilius very clearly, a mulish look upon his face, "is a shy and highly magical creature, and its horn -" "Mr. Lovegood. I recognize the grooved markings around the ase, thats an Erumpent horn and its incredily dangerous - I dont know where you got it-" "I ought it," said Xenophilius dogmatically. "Two weeks ago, from a delightful young wizard who knew my interest in the exquisite Snorkack. A Christmas surprise for my Luna. Now," he said, turning to Harry, "why exactly have you come here, Mr. Potter?" "We need some help," said Harry, efore Hermione could start again. "Ah," said Xenophilius, "Help, Hmm." His good eye moved again to Harrys scar. He seemed simultaneously terrified and mesmerized. "Yes. The thing is ... helping Harry Potter ... rather dangerous..."
"Arent you the one who keeps telling everyone its their first duty to help Harry?" said Ron. "In that magazine of yours?" Xenophilius glanced ehind him at the concealed printing press, still anging and clattering eneath the talecloth. "Er - yes, I have expressed that view. however -" "Thats for everyone else to do, not you personally?" said Ron. Xenophilius did not answer. He kept swallowing, his eyes darting etween the three of them. Harry had the impression that he was undergoing some painful internal struggle. "Wheres Luna?" asked Hermione. "Lets see what she thinks." Xenophilius gulped. He seemed to e steeling himself. Finally he said in a shaky voice difficult to hear over the noise of the printing press, "Luna is down at the stream, fishing for Freshwater Plimpies. She...she will like to see you. Ill go and call her and then - yes, very well. I shall try to help you." He disappeared down the spiral staircase and they heard the front open and close. They looked at each other. "Cowardly old wart," said Ron. "Lunas got ten times his guts." "Hes proaly worried aout whatll happen to them if the Death Eaters find out I was here" said Harry. "Well, I agree with Ron, " said Hermione, "Awful old hypocrite, telling everyone else to help you and trying to worm our of it himself. And for heavens sake keep away from that horn." Harry crossed to the window on the far side of the room. He could see a stream, a thin, glittering rion lying far elow them at the ase of the hill. They were very high up; a ird fluttered past the window as he stared in the direction of the Burrow, now invisile eyond another line of hills. Ginny was over there somewhere. They were closer to each other today than they had een since Bill and Fleurs wedding, ut she could have no idea he was gazing toward her now, thinking of her. He suppose he ought to e glad of it; anyone he came into contact with was in danger, Xenophiliuss attitude proved that. he turned away from the windows and his gaze fell upon another peculiar oject standing upon the cluttered, curved slide oard; a stone ut of a eautiful ut austere-looking witch wearing a most izarre-looking headdress. Two ojects that resemled golden ear trumpets curved out from the sides. A tiny pair of glittering lue wing was stuck to a leather strap that ran over the top of her head, while one of the orange radishes had een stuck to a second strap around her forehead. "Look at this," said Harry. "Fetching," said Ron. "Surprised he didnt hear that to the wedding." They heard the front door close, and a moment later Xenophilius climed ack up the spiral staircase into the room, his thin legs now encase in Wellington oots, earing a tray of ill-assorted teacups and a steaming teapot. "Ah, you have spotted my pet invention," he said, shoving the tray into
Hermiones arms and joining Harry at the statues side. "Modeled, fittingly enough, upon the head of the eautiful Rowens Ravenclaw, Wit eyond measure is a mans greatest treasure!" He indicated the ojects like ear trumpets. "These are the Wrackpurt siphons - to remove all sources of distraction from the thinkers immediate area. Here, "he pointed out the tiny wings, "a illywig propeller, to induce an elevated frame of mind. Finally, "he pointed to the orange radish, "the dirigile Plum, so as to enhance the aility to accept the extraordinary." Xenophilius strode ack to the tea tray, which Hermione had managed to alance precariously on one of the cluttered side tales. "May I offer you all an infusion of Gurdyroots?" said Xenophilius. "We make it ourselves." As he started to pour out the drink, which was as deeply purple as eetroot juice, he added, "Luna is down eyond Bottom Bridge, she is most excited that you are here She ought not to e too long, she has caught nearly enough Plumpies to make soup for all of us. Do sit down and help yourselves to sugar. "Now," he remove a tottering pile of papers from an armchair and sat down, his Wellingtoned legs crossed, "how may I help you, Mr. Potter?" "Well," said Harry, glancing at Hermione, who nodded encouragingly, "its aout that symol you were wearing around your neck at Bill and Fleurs wedding, Mr. Lovegood. We wondered what it meant." Xenophilius raised his eyerows. "Are you referring to the sign of the Deathly Hallows?"
Chapter Twenty-One
The Tale of the Three Brothers
Harry turned to look at Ron and Hermione. Neither of them seemed to have understood what Xenophilius had said either.
"The Deathly Hallows?"
"Thats right," said Xenophilius. "You havent heard of them? Im not surprised. Very, very few wizards elieve. Witness that knuckle-headed young man at your rothers wedding," he nodded at Ron, "who attacked me for sporting the symol of a well-known Dark wizard! Such ignorance. There is nothing Dark aout the Hallows - at least not in that crude sense. One simply uses the symol to reveal oneself to other elievers, in the hope that they might help one with the Quest."
He stirred several lumps of sugar into his Gurdyroot infusion and drank some.
"Im sorry," said Harry, "I still dont really understand."
To e polite, he took a sip from his cup too, and almost gagged: The stuff was quite disgusting, as though someone had liquidized ogey-flavored Every Flavor Beans.
"Well, you see, elievers seek the Deathly Hallows," said Xenophilius, smacking his lips in apparent appreciation of the Gurdyroot infusion.
"But what are the Deathly Hallows?" asked Hermione.
Xenophilius set aside his empty teacup.
"I assume that you are familiar with The Tale of the Three Brothers?"
Harry said, "No," ut Ron and Hermione oth said, "Yes." Xenophilius nodded gravely.
"Well, well, Mr. Potter, the whole thing starts with The Tale of the Three Brothers . . . I have a copy somewhere . . ."
He glanced vaguely around the room, at the piles of parchment and ooks, ut Hermione said, "Ive got a copy, Mr. Lovegood, Ive got it right here."
And she pulled out The Tales of Beedle the Bard from the small, eaded ag.
"The original?" inquired Xenophilius sharply, and when she nodded, he said, "Well then, why dont you read it out aloud? Much the est way to make sure we all understand."
"Er. . . all right," said Hermione nervously. She opened the ook, and Harry saw that the symol they were investigating headed the top of the page as she gave a little cough, and egan to read.
"There were once three rothers who were traveling along a lonely, winding road at twilight -"
"Midnight, our mum always told us," said Ron, who had stretched out, arms ehind his head, to listen. Hermione shot him a look of annoyance.
"Sorry, I just think its a it spookier if its midnight!" said Ron.
"Yeah, ecause we really need a it more fear in our lives," said Harry efore he could stop himself. Xenophilius did not seem to e paying much attention, ut was staring out of the window at the sky. "Go on, Hermione."
"In time, the rothers reached a river too deep to wade through and too dangerous to swim across. However, these rothers were learned in the magical arts, and so they simply waved their wands and made a ridge appear across the treacherous water. They were halfway across it when they found their path locked y a hooded figure.
"And Death spoke to them -"
"Sorry," interjected Harry, "ut Death spoke to them?"
"Its a fairy tale, Harry!"
"Right, sorry. Go on."
"And Death spoke to them. He was angry that he had een cheated out of the three new victims, for travelers usually drowned in the river. But Death was cunning. He pretended to congratulate the three rothers upon their magic, and said that each had earned a prize for having een clever enough to evade him.
"So the oldest rother, who was a comative man, asked for a wand more powerful than any in existence: a wand that must always win duels for its owner, a wand worthy of a wizard who had conquered Death! So Death crossed to an elder tree on the anks of the river, fashioned a wand from a ranch that hung there, and gave it to the oldest rother.
"Then the second rother, who was an arrogant man, decided that he wanted to humiliate Death still further, and asked for the power to recall others from Death. So
Death picked up a stone from the riverank and gave it to the second rother, and told him that the stone would have the power to ring ack the dead.
"And then Death asked the third and youngest rother what he would like. The youngest rother was the humlest and also the wisest of the rothers, and he did not trust Death. So he asked for something that would enale him to go forth from that place without eing followed y Death. And Death, most unwillingly, handed over his own Cloak of Invisiility."
"Deaths got an Invisiility Cloak?" Harry interrupted again.
"So he can sneak up on people," said Ron. "Sometimes he gets ored of running at them, flapping his arms and shrieking . . . sorry, Hermione."
"Then Death stood aside and allowed the three rothers to continue on their way, and they did so talking with wonder of the adventure they had had and admiring Deaths gifts.
"In due course the rothers separated, each for his own destination.
"The first rother traveled on for a week more, and reaching a distant village, sought out a fellow wizard with whom he had a quarrel. Naturally, with the Elder Wand as his weapon, he could not fail to win the duel that followed. Leaving his enemy dead upon the floor the oldest rother proceeded to an inn, where he oasted loudly of the powerful wand he had snatched from Death himself, and of how it made him invincile.
"That very night, another wizard crept upon the oldest rother as he lay, wine-sodden upon his ed. The thief took the wand and for good measure, slit the oldest rothers throat.
"And so Death took the first rother for his own.
"Meanwhile, the second rother journeyed to his own home, where he lived alone. Here he took out the stone that had the power to recall the dead, and turned it thrice in his hand. To his amazement and his delight, the figure of the girl he had once hoped to marry, efore her untimely death, appeared at once efore him.
"Yet she was sad and cold, separated from him as y a veil. Though she had returned to the mortal world, she did not truly elong there and suffered. Finally the second rother, driven mad with hopeless longing, killed himself so as to truly join her.
"And so Death took the second rother from his own.
"But though Death searched for the third rother for many years, he was never ale to find him. It was only when he had attained a great age that the youngest rother finally took off the Cloak of Invisiility and gave it to his son. And the he greeted Death as an old friend, and went with him gladly, and, equals, they departed this life."
Hermione closed the ook. It was a moment or two efore Xenophilius seemed to realize that she had stopped reading; then he withdrew his gaze from the window and said: "Well, there you are."
"Sorry?" said Hermione, sounding confused.
"Those are the Deathly Hallows," said Xenophilius.
He picked up a quill from a packed tale at his elow, and pulled a torn piece of parchment from etween more ooks.
"The Elder Wand," he said, and drew a straight vertical line upon the parchment. "The Resurrection Stone," he said, and added a circle on top of the line. "The Cloak of Invisiility," he finished, enclosing oth line and circle in a triangle, to make the symols that so intrigued Hermione. "Together," he said, "the Deathly Hallows."
"But theres no mention of the words Deathly Hallows in the story," said Hermione.
"Well, of course not," said Xenophilius, maddeningly smug. "That is a childrens tale, told to amuse rather than to instruct. Those of us who understand these matters, however, recognize that the ancient story refers to three ojects, or Hallows, which, if united, will make the possessor master of Death."
There was a short silence in which Xenophilius glanced out of the window. Already the sun was low in the sky.
"Luna ought to have enough Plimpies soon," he said quietly.
"When you say master of Death -"said Ron.
"Master," said Xenophilius, waving an airy hand. "Conqueror. Vanquisher. Whichever term you prefer."
"But then . . . do you mean . . ." said Hermione slowly, and Harry could tell that she was trying to keep any trace of skepticism out of her voice, "that you elieve these ojects - these Hallows - really exist?"
Xenophilius raised his eyerows again.
"Well, of course."
"But," said Hermione, and Harry could hear her restraint starting to crack, "Mr. Lovegood, how can you possily elieve - ?"
"Luna has told me all aout you, young lady," said Xenophilius. "You are, I gather, not unintelligent, ut painfully limited. Narrow. Close-minded."
"Perhaps you ought to try on the hat, Hermione," said Ron, nodding toward the ludicrous headdress. His voice shook with the strain of not laughing.
"Mr. Lovegood," Hermione egan again, "We all know that there are such things as Invisiility Cloaks. They are rare, ut they exist. But -"
"Ah, ut the Third Hallow is a true Cloak of Invisiility, Miss Granger! I mean to say, it is not a traveling cloak imued with a Disillusionment Charm, or carrying a Bedazzling Hex, or else woven from Demiguise hair, which will hide one initially ut fade with the years until it turns opaque. We are talking aout a cloak that really and truly renders the wearer completely invisile, and endures eternally, giving constant and impenetrale concealment, no matter what spells are cast at it. How many cloaks have you ever seen like that, Miss Granger?"
Hermione opened her mouth to answer, then closed it again, looking more confused than ever. She, Harry and Ron glanced at one another, and Harry knew that they were all thinking the same thing. It so happened that a cloak exactly like the one Xenophilius had just descried was in the room with them at that very moment.
"Exactly," said Xenophilius, as if he had defeated them all in reasoned argument. "None of you have ever seen such a thing. The possessor would e immeasuraly rich, would he not?"
He glanced out of the window again. The sky was now tinged with the faintest trace of pink.
"All right," said Hermione, disconcerted. "Say the Cloak existed. . . what aout that stone, Mr. Lovegood? The thing you call the Resurrection Stone?"
"What of it?"
"Well, how can that e real?"
"Prove that is not," said Xenophilius.
Hermione looked outraged.
"But thats - Im sorry, ut thats completely ridiculous! How can I possily prove it doesnt exist? Do you expect me to get hold of - of all the peles in the world and test them? I mean, you could claim that anythings real if the only asis for elieving in it is that noodys proved it doesnt exist!"
"Yes, you could," said Xenophilius. "I am glad to see that you are opening your mind a little."
"So the Elder Wand," said Harry quickly, efore Hermione could retort, "you think that exists too?"
"Oh, well, in that case there is endless evidence," said Xenophilius. "The Elder Wand is the Hallow that is most easily traced, ecause of the way in which it passes from hand to hand."
"Which is what?" asked Harry.
"Which is that the possessor of the wand must capture it from its previous owner, if he is to e truly master of it," said Xenophilius. "Surely you have heard of the way the wand came to Egert the Egregious, after his slaughter of Emeric the Evil? Of how Godelot died in his own cellar after his son, Hereward, took the wand from him? Of the dreadful Loxias, who took the wand from Baraaas Deverill, whom he had killed? The loody trail of the Elder Wand is splattered across the pages of Wizarding history."
Harry glanced at Hermione. She was frowning at Xenophilius, ut she did not contradict him.
"So where do you think the Elder Wand is now?" asked Ron.
"Alas, who knows?" said Xenophilius, as he gazed out of the window. "Who knows where the Elder Wand lies hidden? The trail goes cold with Arcus and Livius. Who can say which of them really defeated Loxias, and which took the wand? And who can say who may have defeated them? History, alas, does not tell us."
There was a pause. Finally Hermione asked stiffly, "Mr. Lovegood, does the Peverell family have anything to do with the Deathly Hallows?"
Xenophilius looked taken aack as something shifted in Harrys memory, ut he could not locate it. Peverell. . . he had heard that name efore. . .
"But you have een misleading me, young woman!" said Xenophilius, now sitting up much straighter in his chair and goggling at Hermione. "I thought you were new to the Hallows Quest! Many of us Questers elieve that the Peverells have everything - everything! - to do with the Hallows!"
"Who are the Peverells?" asked Ron.
"That was the name on the grave with the mark on it, in Godrics Hollow," said Hermione, still watching Xenophilius. "Ignotus Peverell."
"Exactly!" said Xenophilius, his forefinger raised pedantically. "The sign of the Death Hallows on Ignotuss grave is conclusive proof!"
"Of what?" asked Ron.
"Why, that the three rothers in the story were actually the three Peverell rothers, Antioch, Cadmus and Ignotus! That they were the original owners of the Hallows!"
With another glance at the window he got to his feet, picked up the tray, and headed for the spiral staircase.
"You will stay for dinner?" he called, as he vanished downstairs again. "Everyody always requests our recipe for Freshwater Plimply soup."
"Proaly to show the Poisoning Department at St. Mungos," said Ron under his reath.
Harry waited until they could hear Xenophilius moving aout in the kitchen downstairs efore speaking.
"What do you think?" he asked Hermione.
"Oh, Harry," she said wearily, "its a pile of utter ruish. This cant e what the sign really means. This must just e his weird take on it. What a waste of time."
"I spose this is the man who rought us Crumple-Horned Snorkacks," said Ron.
"You didnt elieve it either?" Harry asked him.
"Nah, that storys just one of those things you tell kids to teach them lessons, isnt it? Dont go looking for troule, dont go pick fights, dont go messing around with stuff thats est left alone! Just keep your head down, mind your own usiness, and youll e okay. Come to think of it," Ron added, "maye that storys why elder wands are supposed to e unlucky."
"What are you talking aout?"
"One of those superstitions, isnt it? May-orn witches will marry Muggles. Jinx y twilight, undone y midnight. Wand of cider, never prosper. You must have heard them. My mums full of them."
"Harry and I were raised y Muggles," Hermione reminded him. "We were taught different superstitions." She sighed deeply as a rather pungent smell drifted up from the kitchen. The one good thing aout her exasperation with Xenophilius was that it seemed to have made her forget that she was annoyed at Ron. "I think youre right," she told him. "Its just a morality tale, its ovious which gift is est, which one youd choose -"
The three of them spoke at the same time: Hermione said, "the Cloak," Ron said, "the wand," and Harry said, "the stone."
They looked at each other, half surprised, half amused.
"Youre supposed to say the Cloak," Ron told Hermione, "ut you wouldnt need to e invisile if you had the wand. An uneatale wand, Hermione, come on!"
"Weve already got an Invisiility Cloak," said Harry, "And its helped us rather a lot, in case you hadnt noticed!" said Hermione. "Whereas the wand would e ound to attract troule--" "Only if you shouted aout it," argued Ron. "Only if you were prat enough to go dancing around waving it over your head, and singing, Ive got an uneatale want, come and have a go if you think youre hard enough. As long as you kept your trap shut --" -Yes, ut could you keep your trap shut?" said Hermione, looking skeptical. "You know the only true thing he said to us was that there have een stories aout extra-powerful wands for hundreds of years." "There have?" asked Harry. Hermione looked exasperated: The expression was so endearingly familiar that Harry and Ron grinned at each other. "The Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny, they crop up under different names through the centuries, usually in the possession of some Dark wizard who’s oasting aout them. Professor Binns mentioned some of them, ut -- oh its all nonsense. Wands are only as powerful as the wizards who use them. Some wizards just like to oast that theirs are igger and etter than other peoples"
"But how do you know," said Harry, "that those wants -- the Deathstick, and the Wand of Destiny -- arent the same want, surfacing over the centuries under different names?" "What if theyre all really the Elder Wand, made y Death?" said Ron. Harry laughed: The strange idea that had occurred to him was after all, ridiculous. His wand, he reminded himself, had een of holly, not elder, and it had een made y Ollivander, whatever it had done that night Voldemort had pursued him across the skies and if it had een uneatale, how could it have een roken? "So why would you take the stone?" Ron asked him. "Well, if you could ring people ack, we could have Sirius...Mad-Eye...Dumledore...my parents..." Neither Ron nor Hermione smiled. "But according to Beedle the Bard, they wouldnt want to come ack, would they?" said Harry, thinking aout the tail they had just heard. "I dont suppose there have een loads of other stories aout a stone that can raise the dead, have there?: he asked Hermione. "No," she replied sadly. "I dont think anyone except Mr. Lovegood could kid themselves thats possile. Beedle proaly took the idea from the Sorcerers Stone; you know, instead of a stone to make you immortal, a stone to reverse death." The smell from the kitchen was getting stronger. It was something like urning underpants. Harry wondered whether it would e possile to eat enough of whatever Xenophilius was cooking to spare his feelings. "What aout the Cloak, though?" said Ron slowly. "Dont you realize, hes right? Ive got so used to Harrys Cloak and how good it is, I never stopped to think. Ive never heard of one like Harrys. Its infallile. Weve never een spotted under it --" "Of course not -- were invisile when were under it, Ron!" "But all the stuff he said aout other cloaks, and theyre not exactly ten a Knut, you know, is true! Its never occurred to me efore ut Ive heard stuff aout charms wearing off cloaks when they get old, or them eing ripped apart y spells so theyve got holes, Harrys was owned y his dad, so its not exactly new, is it, ut its just ... perfect!" "Yes, all right, ut Ron, the stone..." As they argued in whispers, Harry moved around the room, only half listening. Reaching the spiral stair, he raised his eyes asently to the next level and was distracted at once. His own face was looking ack at him from the ceiling of the room aove. After a moments ewilderment, he realized that it was not a mirror, ut a painting. Curious, he egan to clime the stairs. "Harry, what are you doing? I dont think you should look around when hes not here!" But Harry had already reached the next level. Luna had decorated her edroom ceiling with five eautifully painted faces: Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Neville. They were not moving as the portraits at Hogwarts moved, ut there was a certain magic aout them all the same. Harry thought they reathed. What appeared to e a fine golden chains wove around the pictures linking them together, ut after examining them for a minute or so, Harry realized that the chains were actually one work repeated a thousand times in golden ink: friends... friends... friends... Harry felt a great rush of affection for Luna. He looked around the room. There was a large photograph eside the ed, of a young Luna and a woman who looked very like her. They were hugging. Luna looked rather etter-groomed in this picture than Harry had ever seen her in life. The picture was dusty. This struck Harry as slightly odd. He stared
around. Something was wrong. The pale lue carpet was also thick with dust. There were no clothes in the wardroe, whose doors stood ajar. The ed had a cold, unfriendly look, as though it had not een slept in for weeks. A single cowe stretched over the nearest window across the lood red sky. "Whats wrong?" Hermione asked as Harry descended the staircase, ut efore he could respond, Xenophilius reached the top of the stairs from the kitchen, now holding a tray laden with owls. "Mr. Lovegood," said Harry. "Wheres Luna?" "Excuse me?" "Wheres Luna?" Xenophilius halted on the top step. "I -- Ive already told you. She is down at the Botions Bridge fishing for Plimpies." "So why have you only laid that tray for four?" Xenophilius tried to speak, ut no sound came out. The only noise was the continued chugging of the printing press, and a slight rattle from the tray as Xenophiliuss hands shook. "I dont think Lunas een here for weeks." said Harry. "Her clothes are gone, her ed hasnt een slept in. Where is she? and why do you keep looking out of the window?" Xenophilius dropped the tray. The owls ounced and smashed Harry, Ron, and Hermione drew their wands. Xenophilius froze his hand aout to enter his pocket. At that moment the printing press have a huge ank and numerous Quilers came streaming across the floor from underneath the talecloth, the press fell silent at last. Hermione stooped down and picked up one of the magazines, her wand still pointing at Mr. Lovegood. "Harry, look at this" He strode over to her as quickly as he could through all the clutter. The front of the Quiler carried his own picture, emlazoned with the words "Undesirale Numer One" and captioned with the reward money. "The Quilers going for a new angle, then?: Harry asked coldly, his mind working very fast. "Is that what you were doing when you went into the garden, Mr. Lovegood? Sending an owl to the Ministry? Xenophilius licked his lips "They took my Luna," he whispered, "Because of what Ive een writing. They took my Luna and I dont know where she is, what theyve done to her. But they might give her ack to me if I -- If I--" "Hand over Harry?" Hermione finished for him. "No deal." said Ron flatly. "Get out of the way, were leaving." Xenophilius looked ghastly, a century old, his lips drawn ack into a dreadful leer. "They will e here any moment. I must save Luna. I cannot lose Luna. You must not leave." He spread his arms in front of the staircase, and Harry had a sudden vision of his mother doing the same thing in front of his cri. "Dont make us hurt you," Harry said. "Get out of the way, Mr. Lovegood." "HARRY!" Hermione screamed. Figures on roomsticks were flying past the windows. As the three of them looked away from him. Xenophilius drew his wand. Harry realized their mistake just in time. He launched himself sideways, shoving Ron and Hermione out of harms way as
Xenophiliuss Stunning Spell soared across the room and hit the Erumpent horn. There was a colossal explosion. The sound of it seemed to low the room apart. Fragments of wood and paper and rule flew in all directions, along with an impenetrale cloud of thick white dust. Harry flew through the air, then crashed to the floor, unale to see as deris rained upon him, his arms over his head. He heard Hermiones scream, Rons yell, and a series of sickening metallic thuds which told him that Xenophilius had een lasted off his feet and fallen ackward down the spiral stairs. Half uried in rule, Harry tried to raise himself. He could arely reathe or see for dust. Half of the ceiling had fall in and the end of Lunas ead was hanging through the hole. The ust of Rowena Ravenclaw lay eside him with half its face missing fragments of torn parchment were floating through the air, and most of the printing press lay on its side, locking the top of the staircase to the kitchen. Then another white shape moved close y, and Hermione, coated in dust like a second statue, pressed his finger to her lips. The door downstairs crashed open. "Didnt I tell you there was no need to hurry, Travers?" said a rough voice. "Didnt I tell you this nutter was just raving as usual?" There was a ang and a scream of pain from Xenophilius. "No...no...upstairs...Potter!" "I told you last week Lovegood, we werent coming ack for anything less than some solid information! Rememer last week? When you wanted to swap your daughter for that stupid leeding headdress? And the week efore" -- Another ang, another squeal -- "When you thought wed give her ack if you offered us proof there are Cumple" -- Bang -- "Headed"--ang--"Snorkacks?" "No -- no -- I eg of you!" soed Xenophilius. "It really is Potter, Really!" "And now it turns out you only called us here to try and low us up!" roared the Death Eater, and there was a volley of angs interspersed with squeals of agony from Xenophilius. "The place looks like its aout to fall in, Selwyn," said a cool second voice, echoing up the mangled staircase. "The stairs are completely locked. Could try clearing it? Might ring the place down." "You lying piece of filth." shouted the wizard named Selwyn. "You have never seen Potter in your life, have you? Thought youd lure us here to kill us, did you? And you think youll get your girl ack like this?" "I swear...I swear...Potters upstairs!" "Homenum revelio." said the voice at the foot of the stairs. Harry heard Hermione gasp, and he had the odd sensation something was swooping low over him, immersing his ody in its shadow. "Theres someone up there all right, Selwyn," said the second man sharply. "Its Potter, I tell you, its Potter!" soed Xenophilius. "Please...please...give me Luna, just let me have Luna..." "You can have your little girl, Lovegood," said Selwyn, "if you get up those stairs and ring me down Harry Potter. But if this is a plot, if its a trick, if youve got an accomplice waiting up there to amush us, well see if we can spare a it of your daughter for you to ury." Xenophilius gave a wail of fear and despair. There were scurryings and scrapings. Xenophilius was trying to get through the deris on the stairs.
"Come on," Harry whispered, "weve got to get out of here." He started to dig himself out under cover of all the noise Xenophilius was making on the staircase. Ron was uried the deepest. Harry and Hermione climed, as quietly as they could, over all the wreckage to where he lay, trying to prise a heavy chest of drawers off his legs. While Xenophilius anging and scraping drew nearer and nearer, Hermione managed to free Ron with the use of a Hover Charm. "All right." reathed Hermione, as the roken printing press locking the top of the stairs egin to tremle. Xenophilius was feet away from them. She was still white with dust. "Do you trust me Harry?" Harry nodded. "Okay then." Hermione whispered. "give me the invisiility Cloak. Ron, youre going to put it on." "Me? But Harry --" "Please, Ron! Harry, hold on tight to my hand, Ron gra my shoulder." Harry held out his left hand. Ron vanished eneath the Cloak. The printing press locking the stairs was virating. Xenophilius was trying to shift it using a Hover Charm. Harry did not know what Hermione was waiting for. "Hold tight" she whispered. "Hold tight...any second..." Xenophiliuss paper-white face appeared over the top of the sideoard. "Oliviate!" cried Hermione, pointing her want first into his face then at the floor eneath them. "Deprimo!" She had lasted a hole in the sitting room floor. They fell like oulders. Harry still holding onto her hand for dear life, there was a scream from elow, and he glimpsed two men trying to get out of the way as vast quantities of rule and roken furniture rained all around them from the shattered ceiling. Hermione twisted in midair and thundering of the collapsing house rang in Harrys ears as she dragged him once more into darkness.
Chapter Twenty-Two
The Deathly Hallows
Harry fell, panting, onto grass and scramled up at once. They seemed to have landed in the corner of a field at dusk; Hermione was already running in a circle around them, waving her wand.
"Protego Totalum...Salvio Hexia..."
"That treacherous old leeder." Ron panted, emerging from eneath the Invisiility Cloak and throwing it to Harry. "Hermione you’re a genius, a total genius. I can’t elieve we got out of that."
"Cave Inimicum...Didn’t I say it was an Frumpent horn, didn’t I tell him? And now his house has een lown apart!"
"Serves him right," said Ron, examining his torn jeans and the cuts to his legs, "What’d you reckon they’ll do to him?"
"Oh I hope they don’t kill him!" groaned Hermione, "That’s why I wanted the Death Eaters to get a glimpse of Harry efore we left, so they knew Xenophilius hadn’t een lying!"
"Why hide me though?" asked Ron.
"You’re supposed to e in ed with spattergrolt, Ron! They’ve kidnapped Luna ecause her father supported Harry! What would happen to your family if they knew you’re with him?"
"But what aout your mum and dad?"
"They’re in Australia," said Hermione, "They should e all right. They don’t know anything."
"You’re a genius," Ron repeated, looking awed.
Yeah, you are, Hermione," agreed Harry fervently. "I don’t know what we’d do without you."
She eamed, ut ecame solemn at once.
"What aout Luna?"
"Well, if they’re telling the truth and she’s still Alive ---" egan Ron.
"Don’t say that, don’t say it!" squealed Hermione. "She must e alive, she must!"
"Then she’ll e in Azkaan, I expect," said Ron. "Whether she survives the place, though...Loads don’t..."
"She will," said Harry. He could not ear to contemplate the alternative. "She’s tough, Luna, much tougher than you’d think. She’s proaly teaching all the inmates aout Wrackspurts and Nargles."
"I hope you’re right," said Hermione. She passed a hand over her eyes. "I’d feel so sorry for Xenophilius if ---"
"---if he hadn’t just tried to sell us to the Death Eaters, yeah," said Ron.
They put up the tent and retreated inside it, where Ron made them tea. After their narrow escape, the chilly, musty old place felt like home: safe, familiar, and friendly.
"Oh, why did we go there?" groaned Hermione after a few minutes’ silence. "Harry, you were right, it was Godric’s Hollow all over again, a complete waste of time! The Deathly Hallows...such ruish...although actually," a sudden thought seemed to have struck her, "he might have made it all up, mightn’t he? He proaly doesn’t elieve in the Deathly Hallows at all, he just wanted to keep us talking until the Death Eaters arrived!"
"I don’t think so," said Ron. "It’s a damn sight harder making stuff up when you’re under stress than you’d think. I found that out when the Snatchers caught me. It was much easier pretending to e Stan, ecause I knew a it aout him, than inventing a whole new person. Old Lovegood was under loads of pressure, trying to make sure we stayed put. I reckon he told us the truth, or what he thinks is the truth, just to keep us talking."
"Well, I don’t suppose it matters," sighed Hermione. "Even if he was eing honest, I never heard such a lot of nonsense in all my life."
"Hang on, though," said Ron. "The Chamer of Secrets was supposed to e a myth, wasn’t it?"
"But the Deathly Hallows can’t exist, Ron!"
"You keep saying that, ut one of them can," said Ron. "Harry’s Invisiility Cloak ---"
"The Tale of the Three Brothers’ is a story," said Hermione firmly. "A story aout how humans are frightened of death. If surviving was as simple as hiding under the Invisiility Cloak, we’d have everything we need already!"
"I don’t know. We could do with an uneatale wand," said Harry, turning the lackthorn wand he so disliked over in his fingers.
"There’s no such thing, Harry!"
"You said there have een loads of wands --- the Deathstick and whatever they were called ---"
"All right, even if you want to kid yourself the Elder Wand’s real, what aout the Resurrection Stone?" Her fingers sketched quotation marks around the name, and her tone dripped sarcasm. "No magic can raise the dead, and that’s that!"
"When my wand connected with You-Know-Who’s, it made my mum and dad appear...and Cedric..."
"But they weren’t really ack from the dead, were they?" said Hermione. "Those kind of ---of pale imitations aren’t the same as truly ringing someone ack to life."
"But she, the girl in the tale, didn’t really come ack, did she? The story says that once people are dead, they elong with the dead. But the second rother still got to see her and talk to her, didn’t he? He even lived with her for a while..."
He saw concern and something less easily definale in Hermione’s expression. Then, as she glanced at Ron, Harry realized that it was fear: He had scared her with his talk of living with dead people.
"So that Peverell loke who’s uried in Godric’s Hollow," he said hastily, trying to sound roustly sane, "you don’t know anything aout him, then?"
"No," she replied, looking relieved at the change of suject. "I looked him up after I saw the mark on his grave; if he’d een anyone famous or done anything important, I’m sure he’d e in one of our ooks. The only place I’ve managed to find the name ‘Peverell’ Is Nature’s Noility: A Wizarding Genealogy. I orrowed it from Kreacher," she explained as Ron raised his eyerows. "It lists the pure-lood families that are now extinct in the male line. Apparently the Peverells were one of the earliest families to vanish."
"Extinct in the male line?" repeated Ron.
"It means the name died out," said Hermione, "centuries ago, in the case of the Peverells. They could still have descendents, though, they’d just e called something different."
And then it came to Harry in one shining piece, the memory that had stirred at the sound of the name "Peverell": a filthy old man randishing an ugly ring in the face of a Ministry official, and he cried aloud, "Marvolo Gaunt!"
"Sorry said Ron and Hermione together.
"Marvolo Gaunt! You-Know-Who’s grandfather! In the Pensieve! With Dumledore! Marvolo Gaunt said he was descended from the Peverells!"
Ron and Hermione looked ewildered.
"The ring, the ring that ecame the Horcrux, Marvolo Gaunt said it had the Peverell coat of arms on it! I saw him waving it in the loke from the Ministry’s face, he nearly shoved it up his nose!"
"The Peverell coat of arms?" said Hermione sharply. "Could you see what it looked like?"
"Not really," said Harry, trying to rememer. "There was nothing fancy on there, as far as I could see; maye a few scratches. I only ever saw it really close up after it had een cracked open."
Harry saw Hermione’s comprehension in the sudden widening of her eyes. Ron was looking from one to the other, astonished.
"Blimey...You reckon it was this sign again? The sign of the Hallows?
"Why not said Harry excitedly, "Marvolo Gaunt was an ignorant old git who lived like a pig, all he cared aout was his ancestry. If that ring had een passed down through the centuries, he might not have known what it really was. There were no ooks in that house, and trust me, he wasn’t the type to read fairy tales to his kids. He’d have loved to think the scratches on the stone were a coat of arms, ecause as far as he was concerned, having pure lood made you practically royal."
"Yes...and that’s all very interesting," said Hermione cautiously, "ut Harry, if you’re thinking what I think you’re think ---"
"Well, why not? Why not? said Harry, aandoning caution. "It was a stone, wasn’t it?" He looked at Ron for support. "What if it was the Resurrection Stone?"
Ron’s mouth fell open.
"Blimey --- ut would it still work if Dumledore roke --- ?"
"Work? Work? Ron, it never worked! There’s no such thing as a Resurrection Stone!"
Hermione leapt to her feet, looking exasperated and angry. Harry you’re trying to fit everything into the Hallows story ---"
"Fit everything in?" he repeated. "Hermione, it fits of its own accord! I know the sign of the Deathly Hallows was on that stone! Gaunt said he was descended from the Peverells!"
"A minute ago you told us you never saw the mark on the stone properly!"
"Where’d you reckon the ring is now?" Ron asked Harry. "What did Dumledore do with it after he roke it open?"
"But Harry’s imagination was racing ahead, far eyond Ron and Hermione’s...
Three ojects, or Hallows, which, if united, will make the possessor master of Death...Master...Conqueror...Vanquisher...The last enemy that shall e destroyed is death...
And he saw himself, possessor of the Hallows, facing Voldemort, whose Horcruxes were no match...Neither can live while the other survives...Was this the answer? Hallows versus Horcruxes? Was there a way after all, to ensure that he was the one who triumphed? If he were the master of the Deathly Hallows, would he e safe?
"Harry?"
But he scarcely heard Hermione: He had pulled out his Invisiility Cloak and was running it through his fingers, the cloth supple as water, light as air. He had never seen anything to equal it in his nearly seven years in the Wizarding world. The Cloak was exactly what Xenophilius had descried: A cloak that really and truly renders the wearer completely invisile, and endures eternally, giving constant and impenetrale concealment, no matter what spells are cast at it...
And then, with a gasp, he rememered-
"Dumledore had my Cloak the night my parents died!"
His voice shook and he could feel the color in his face, ut he did not care.
"My mum told Sirius that Dumledore orrowed the Cloak! This is why! He wanted to examine it, ecause he thought it was the third Hallow! Ignotus Peverell is uried in Godric’s Hollow..." Harry was walking lindly around the tent, feeling as
though great new vistas of truth were opening all around him. "He’s my ancestor. I’m descended from the third rother! It all makes sense!"
"He felt armed in certainty, in his elief in the Hallows, as if the mere idea of possessing them was giving him protection, and he felt joyous as he turned ack to the other two.
"Harry," said Hermione again, ut he was usy undoing the pouch around his neck, his fingers shaking hard.
"Read it," he told her, pushing his mother’s letter into her hand. "Read it! Dumledore had the Cloak, Hermione! Why else would he want it? He didn’t need a Cloak, he could perform a Disillusionment Charm so powerful that he made himself completely invisile without one!"
Something fell to the floor and rolled, glittering, under a chair: He had dislodged the Snitch when he pulled out the letter. He stooped to pick it up, and then the newly tapped spring of faulous discoveries threw him another gift, and shock and wonder erupted inside him so that he shouted out.
"IT’S IN HERE! He left me the ring - it’s in the Snitch!"
"You --- you reckon?"
He could not understand why Ron looked taken aack. It was so ovious, so clear to Harry. Everything fit, everything...His Cloak was the third Hallow, and when he discovered how to open the Snitch he would have the second, and then all he needed to do was find the first Hallow, the Elder Wand, and then ---
But it was as though a curtain fell on a lit stage: All his excitement, all his hope and happiness were extinguished at a stroke, and he stood alone in the darkness, and the glorious spell was roken.
"That’s what he’s after."
The change in his voice made Ron and Hermione look even more scared.
"You-Know-Who’s after the Elder Wand."
He turned his ack on their strained, incredulous faces. He knew it was the truth. It all made sense, Voldemort was not seeking a new wand; he was seeking an old wand, a very old wand indeed. Harry walked to the entrance of the tent, forgetting aout Ron and Hermione as he looked out into the night, thinking...
Voldemort had een raised in a Muggle orphanage. Noody could have told him The Tales of Beedle the Bard when he was a child, any more than Harry had heard them. Hardly any wizards elieved in the Deathly Hallows. Was it likely that Voldemort knew aout them?
Harry gazed into the darkness...If Voldemort had known aout the Deathly Hallows, surely he would have sought them, done anything to possess them: three ojects that made the possessor master of Death? If he had known aout the Deathly Hallows, he might not have needed Horcruxes in the first place. Didn’t the simple fact that he had taken a Hallow, and turned it into a Horcrux, demonstrate that he did not know this last great Wizarding secret?
Which meant that Voldemort sought the Elder Wand without realizing its full power, without understanding that it was one of three...for the wand was the Hallow that could not e hidden, whose existence was est known...The loody trail of the Elder Wand is splattered across the pages of Wizarding history...
Harry watched the cloudy sky, curves of smoke-gray and silver sliding over the face of the white moon. He felt lightheaded with amazement at his discoveries.
He turned ack into the tent. It was a shock to see Ron and Hermione standing exactly where he had left them, Hermione still holding Lily’s letter, Ron at her side looking slightly anxious. Didn’t they realize how far they had traveled in the last few minutes?
"This is it?" Harry said, trying to ring them inside the glow of his own astonished certainty, "This explains everything. The Deathly Hallows are real and I’ve got one --- maye two ---"
He held up the Snitch.
"--- and You-Know-Who’s chasing the third, ut he doesn’t realize...he just thinks it’s a powerful wand ---"
"Harry," said Hermione, moving across to him and handing him ack Lily’s letter, "I’m sorry, ut I think you’ve got this wrong, all wrong."
"But don’t you see? It all fits ---"
"Not, it doesn’t," she said. "It doesn’t. Harry, you’re just getting carried away. Please," she said as she started to speak, "please just answer me this: If the Deathly Hallows really existed, and Dumledore knew aout them, knew that the person who possessed all of them would e master of Death --- Harry, why wouldn’t he have told you? Why?"
He had his answer ready.
"But you said it, Hermione! You’ve got to find out aout them for yourself! It’s a Quest!"
"But I only said that to try and persuade you to come to the Lovegoods’!" cried Hermione in exasperation. "I didn’t really elieve it!"
Harry took no notice.
"Dumledore usually let me find out stuff for myself. He let me try my strength, take risks. This feels like the kind of thing he’d do."
"Harry, this isn’t a game, this isn’t practice! This is the real thing, and Dumledore left you very clear instructions: Find and destroy the Horcruxes! That symol doesn’t mean anything, forget the Deathly Hallows, we can’t afford to get sidetracked ---"
Harry was arely listening to her. He was turning the Snitch over and over in his hands, half expecting it to reak open, to reveal the Resurrection Stone, to prove to Hermione that he was right, that the Deathly Hallows were real.
She appealed to Ron.
"You don’t elieve in this, do you?"
Harry looked up, Ron hesitated.
"I dunno...I mean...its of it sort of fit together," said Ron awkwardly, "But when you look at the whole thing..." He took a deep reath. "I think we’re supposed to get rid of Horcruxes, Harry. That’s what Dumledore told us to do. Maye...maye we should forget aout this Hallows usiness."
"Thank you, Ron," said Hermione. "I’ll take first watch."
And she strode past Harry and sat down in the tent entrance ringing the action to a fierce full stop.
But Harry hardly slept that night. The idea of the Deathly Hallows had taken possession of him, and he could not rest while agitating thoughts whirled through his mind: the wand, the stone, and the Cloak, if he could just possess them all...
I open at the close...But what was the close? Why couldn’t he have the stone now? If only he had the stone, he could ask Dumledore these questions in person...and Harry murmured words to the Snitch in the darkness, trying everything, even Parseltongue, ut the golden all would not open...
And the wand, the Elder Wand, where was that hidden? Where was Voldemort searching now? Harry wished his scar would urn and show him Voldemort’s thoughts, ecause for the first time ever, he and Voldemort were united in wanting the very same thing...Hermione would not like that idea, of course...But then, she did not elieve....Xenophilius had een right, in a way...Limited, Narrow, Close-minded. The truth was that she was scared of the idea of the Deathly Hallows, especially of the Resurrection Stone...and Harry pressed his mouth again to the Snitch, kissing it, nearly swallowing it, ut the cold medal did not yield...
It was nearly dawn when he rememered Luna, alone in a cell in Azkaan, surrounded y dementors, and he suddenly felt ashamed of himself. He had forgotten all aout her in his feverish contemplation of the Hallows. If only they could rescue her, ut dementors in those numers would e virtually unassailale. Now he came to think aout it, he had not tried casting a Patronus with the lackthorn wand...He must try that in the morning...
If only there was a way of getting a etter wand...
And desire for the Elder Wand, the Deathstick, uneatale, invincile, swallowed him once more...
They packed up the tent next morning and moved on through a dreary shower of rain. The downpour pursued them to the coast, where they pitched the tent that night, and persisted through the whole week, through sodden landscapes that Harry found leak and depressing. He could think only of the Deathly Hallows. It was as though a flame had een lit inside him that nothing, not Hermione’s flat diselief nor Ron’s persistent douts, could extinguish. And yet the fiercer the longing for the Hallows urned inside him, the less joyful it made him. He lamed Ron and Hermione: Their determined indifference was as ad as the relentless rain for dampening his spirits, ut neither could erode his certainty, which remained asolute. Harry’s elief in and longing for the Hallows consumed him so much that he felt isolated from the other two and their osession with the Horcruxes.
"Osession?" said Hermione in a low fierce voice, when Harry was careless enough to use the word one evening, after Hermione had told him off for his lack of interest in locating more Horcruxes. "We’re not the one with an osession, Harry! We’re the ones trying to do what Dumledore wanted us to do!"
But he was impervious to the veiled criticism. Dumledore had left the sign of the Hallows for Hermione to decipher, and he had also, Harry remained convinced of it, left the Resurrection Stone hidden in the golden Snitch. Neither can live while the other survives...master of Death...Why didn’t Ron and Hermione understand?
"’The last enemy shall e destroyed is death,’" Harry quoted calmly.
"I thought it was You-Know-Who we were supposed to e fighting?" Hermione retorted, and Harry gave up on her.
Even the mystery of the silver doe, which the other two insisted on discussing, seemed less important to Harry now, a vaguely interesting sideshow. The only other thing that mattered to him was that his scar had egun to prickle again, although he did all he could to hide this fact from the other two. He sought solitude whenever it happened, ut was disappointed y what he saw. The visions he and Voldemort were sharing had changed in quality; they had ecome lurred, shifting as though they were moving in and out of focus. Harry was just ale to make out the indistinct features of an oject that looked like a skull, and something like a mountain that was more shadow than sustance. Used to images sharp as reality, Harry was disconcerted y the change. He was worried that the connection etween himself and Voldemort had een damaged, a connection that he oth feared and, whatever he had told Hermione, prized. Somehow Harry connected these unsatisfying, vague images with the destruction of his wand, as if it was the lackthorn wand’s fault that he could no longer see into Voldemort’s mind as well as efore.
As the weeks crept on, Harry could not help ut notice, even through his new self-asorption, that Ron seemed to e taking charge. Perhaps ecause he was determined to make up for having walked out on them, perhaps ecause Harry’s descent into listlessness galvanized his dormant leadership qualities, Ron was the one now encouraging and exhorting the other two into action.
"Three Horcruxes left," he kept saying. "We need a plan of action, come on! Where haven’t we looked? Let’s go through it again. The orphanage..."
Diagon Alley, Hogwarts, the Riddle House, Borgin and Burkes, Alania, every place that they knew Tom Riddle had ever lived or worked, visited or murdered, Ron and Hermione raked over them again, Harry joining in only to stop Hermione pestering him. He would have een happy to sit alone in silence, trying to read Voldemort’s thoughts, to find out more aout the Elder Wand, ut Ron insisted on journeying to ever more unlikely places simply, Harry was aware, to keep them moving.
"You never know," was Ron’s constant refrain. "Upper Flagley is a Wizarding village, he might’ve wanted to live there. Let’s go and have a poke around."
These frequent forays into Wizarding territory rought them within occasional sight of Snatchers.
"Some of them are supposed to e as ad as Death Eaters," said Ron. "The lot that got me were a it pathetic, ut Bill recons some of them are really dangerous. They said on Potterwatch ---"
"On what?" said Harry.
"Potterwatch, didn’t I tell you that’s what it was called? The program I keep trying to get on the radio, the only one that tells the truth aout what’s going on! Nearly all of the programs are following You-Know-Who’s line, all except Potterwatch, I really want you to hear it, ut it’s tricky tuning in..."
Ron spent evening after evening using his wand to eat out various rhythms on top of the wireless while the dials whirled. Occasionally they would catch snatches of advice on how to treat dragonpox, and once a few ars of "A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love." While he taped, Ron continued to try to hit on the correct password, muttering strings of random words under his reath.
"They’re normally something to do with the Order," he told them. "Bill had a real knack for guessing them. I’m ound to get one in the end..."
"But not until March did luck favor Ron at last. Harry was sitting in the tent entrance, on guard duty, staring idly at a clump of grape hyacinths that had forced their way through the chilly ground, when Ron shouted excitedly from inside the tent.
"I’ve got it, I’ve got it! Password was ‘Alus’! Get in here, Harry."
Roused for the first time in days from his contemplation of the Deathly Hallows, Harry hurried ack inside the tent to find Ron and Hermione kneeling on the floor eside the little radio. Hermione, who had een polishing the sword of Gryffindor just for something to do, was sitting open-mouthed, staring at the tiny speaker, from which a most familiar voice was issuing.
"...apologize for our temporary asence from the airwaves, which was due to a numer of house calls in our area y those charming Death Eaters."
"But that’s Lee Jordan!" said Hermione.
"I know!" eamed Ron. "Cool, eh?"
"...now found ourselves another secure location," Lee was saying, and I’m pleased to tell you that two of our regular contriutors have joined me here this evening. Evening, oys!"
"Hi."
"Evening, River."
"’River’" that’s Lee," Ron explained. "They’ve all got code names, ut you can usually tell ---"
"Shh!" said Hermione.
"But efore we hear from Royal and Romulus," Lee went on, "let’s take a moment to report those deaths that the Wizarding Wireless Network News and Daily Prophet don’t think important enough to mention. It is with great regret that we inform our listeners of the murders of Ted Tonks and Dirk Cresswell."
Harry felt a sick, swooping in his elly. He, Ron, and Hermione gazed at one another in horror.
"A golin y the name of Gornuk was also killed. It is elieved that Muggle-orn Dean Thomas and a second golin, oth elieved to have een traveling with Tonks, Cresswell, and Gornuk, may have escaped. If Dean is listening, or if anyone has any knowledge of his whereaouts, his parents and sisters are desperate for news.
"Meanwhile, in Gaddley, a Muggle family of five has een found dead in their home. Muggle authorities are attriuting their deaths to a gas leak, ut memers of the Order of the Phoenix inform me that it was the Killing Curse --- more evidence, as if it were needed, of the fact that Muggle slaughter is ecoming little more than a recreational sport under the new regime.
"Finally, we regret to inform our listeners that the remains of Bathilda Bagshot have een discovered in Godric’s Hollow. The evidence is that she died several months ago. The Order of the Phoenix informs us that her ody showed unmistakale signs of injuries inflicted y Dark Magic.
"Listeners, I’d like to invite you now to join us in a minute’s silence in memory of Ted Tonks, Dirk Cresswell, Bathilda Bagshot, Gornuk, and the unnamed, ut no less regretted, Muggles murdered y the Death Eaters."
Silence fell, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione did not speak. Half of Harry yearned to hear more, half of him was afraid of what might come next. It was the first time he had felt fully connected to the outside world for a long time.
"Thank you," said Lee’s voice. "And now we can return to regular contriutor Royal, for an update on how the new Wizarding order is affecting the Muggle world."
"Thanks, River," said an unmistakale voice, deep, measured, reassuring.
"Kingsley!" urst out Ron.
"We know!" said Hermione, hushing him.
"Muggles remain ignorant of the source of their suffering as they continue to sustain heavy casualties," said Kingsley. "However, we continue to hear truly inspirational stories of wizards and witches risking their own safety to protect Muggle friends and neighors, often without the Muggles’ knowledge. I’d like to appeal to all our listeners to emulate their example, perhaps y casting a protective charm over any Muggle dwellings in your street. Many lives could e saved if such simple measures are taken."
"And what would you say, Royal, to those listeners who reply that in these dangerous times, it should e ‘Wizards first’? asked Lee.
"I’d say that it’s one short step from ‘Wizards first’ to ‘Pureloods first,’ and then to ‘Death Eaters,’" replied Kingsley. "We’re all human, aren’t we? Every human life is worth the same, and worth saving."
"Excellently put, Royal, and you’ve got my vote for Minister of Magic if we ever get out of this mess," said Lee. "And now, over to Romulus for our popular feature ‘Pals of Potter.’"
"Thanks, River," said another very familiar voice. Ron started to speak, ut Hermione forestalled him in a whisper.
"We know it’s Lupin!"
"Romulus, do you maintain, as you have every time you’ve appeared on our program, that Harry Potter is still alive?"
"I do," said Lupin firmly. "There is no dout at all in my mind that his death would e proclaimed as widely as possile y the Death Eaters if it had happened, ecause it would strike a deadly low at the morale of those resisting the new regime. ‘The Boy Who Lived’ remains a symol of everything for which we are fighting: the triumph of good, the power of innocence, the need to keep resisting."
A mixture of gratitude and shame welled up in Harry. Had Lupin forgiven him, then, for the terrile things he had said when they had last met?
"And what would you say to Harry if you knew he was listening, Romulus?"
"I’d tell him we’re all with him in spirit," said Lupin, then hesitated slightly, "And I’d tell him to follow his instincts, which are good and nearly always right."
Harry looked at Hermione, whose eyes were full of tears.
"Nearly always right," she repeated.
"Oh, didn’t I tell you?" said Ron in surprise. "Bill told me Lupin’s living with Tonks again! And apparently she’s getting pretty ig too..."
"...and our usual update on those friends of Harry Potter’s who are suffering for their allegiance?" Lee was saying.
"Well, as regular listeners will know, several of the more outspoken supporters of Harry Potter have now een imprisoned, including Xenophilius Lovegood, erstwhile editor of The Quiler," said Lupin.
"At least he’s still alive!" muttered Ron.
"We have also heard within the last few hours that Rueus Hagrid" - all three of them gasped, and so nearly missed the rest of the sentence -- "well-known gamekeeper at Hogwarts School, has narrowly escaped arrest within the grounds of Hogwarts, where he is rumored to have hosted a ‘Support Harry Potter’ party in his house. However, Hagrid was not taken into custody, and is, we elieve, on the run."
"I suppose it helps, when escaping from Death Eaters, if you’ve got a sixteen-foot-high half rother?" asked Lee.
"It would tend to give you an edge," agreed Lupin gravely. "May I just add that while we here at Potterwatch applaud Hagrid’s spirit, we would urge even the most devoted of Harry’s supporters against following Hagrid’s lead. ‘Support Harry Potter’ parties are unwise in the present climate."
"Indeed they are, Romulus," said Lee, "so we suggest that you continue to show your devotion to the man with the lightning scar y listening to Potterwatch! And now let’s move to news concerning the wizard who is proving just as elusive as Harry Potter. We like to refer to him as the Chief Death Eater, and here to give his views on some of the more insane rumors circulating aout him, I’d like to introduce a new correspondent. Rodent?"
"’Rodent’?" said yet another familiar voice, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione cried out together:
"Fred!"
"No - is it George?"
"It’s Fred, I think," said Ron, leaning in closer, as whichever twin it was said,
"I’m not eing ‘Rodent,’ no way, I told you I wanted to e ‘Rapier’!"
"Oh, all right then, ‘Rapier,’ could you please give us your take on the various stories we’ve een hearing aout the Chief Death Eater?"
"Yes, River, I can," said Fred. "As our listeners will know, unless they’ve taken refuge at the ottom of a garden pond or somewhere similar, You-Know-Who’s strategy of remaining in the shadows is creating a nice little climate of panic. Mind you, if all the alleged sightings of him are genuine, we must have a good nineteen You-Know-Whos running around the place."
"Which suits him, of course," said Kingsley. "The air of mystery is creating more terror than actually showing himself."
"Agreed," said Fred. "So, people, let’s try and calm down a it. Things are ad enough without inventing stuff as well. For instance, this new idea that You-Know-Who can kill people with a single glance from his eyes. That’s a asilisk, listeners. One simple test: Check whether the thing that’s glaring at you has got legs. If it has, it’s safe to look into its eyes, although if it really is You-Know-Who, that’s still likely to e the last thing you ever do."
For the first time in weeks and weeks, Harry was laughing: He could feel the weight of tension leaving him.
"And the rumors that he keeps eing sighted aroad?" asked Lee.
"Well, who wouldn’t want a nice little holiday after all the hard work he’s een putting in?" asked Fred. "Point is, people, don’t get lulled into a false sense of security, thinking he’s out of the country. Maye he is, maye he isn’t, ut the fact remains he can move faster than Severus Snape confronted with shampoo when he wants to, so don’t
count on him eing a long way away if you’re planning to take any risks. I never thought I’d hear myself say it, ut safety first!"
"Thank you very much for those wise words, Rapier," said Lee. "Listeners, that rings us to the end of another Potterwatch. We don’t know when it will e possile to roadcast again, ut you can e sure we shall e ack. Keep twiddling those dials: The next password will e ‘Mad-Eye.’ Keep each other safe: Keep faith. Good night."
The radio’s dial twirled and the lights ehind the tuning panel went out. Harry, Ron, and Hermione were still eaming. Hearing familiar, friendly voices was an extraordinary tonic; Harry had ecome so used to their isolation he had nearly forgotten that other people were resisting Voldemort. It was like waking from a long sleep.
"Good, eh?" said Ron happily.
"Brilliant," said Harry.
"It’s so rave of them," sighed Hermione admiringly. "If they were found ..."
"Well, they keep on the move, don’t they?" said Ron. "Like us."
"But did you hear what Fred said?" asked Harry excitedly; now the roadcast was over, his thoughts turned around toward his all consuming osession. "He’s aroad! He’s still looking for the Wand, I knew it!"
"Harry-"
"Come on, Hermione, why are you so determined not to admit it? Vol -"
"HARRY, NO!"
"-demort’s after the Elder Wand!"
"The name’s Taoo!" Ron ellowed, leaping to his feet as a loud crack sounded outside the tent. "I told you, Harry, I told you, we can’t say it anymore - we’ve got to put the protection ack around us - quickly - it’s how they find -"
But Ron stopped talking, and Harry knew why. The Sneakoscope on the tale had lit up and egun to spin; they could hear voices coming nearer and nearer: rough, excited voices. Ron pulled the Deluminator out of his pocket and clicked it: Their lamps went out.
"Come out of there with your hands up!" came a rasping voice through the darkness. "We know you’re in there! You’ve got half a dozen wands pointing at you and we don’t care who we curse!"
Chapter Twenty-Three
Malfoy Manor
Harry looked around at the other two, now mere outlines in the darkness. He saw Hermione point her wand, set toward the outside, ut into his face; there was a ang, a urst of white light, and he uckled in agony, unale to see. He could feel his face swelling rapidly under his hands as heavy footfalls surrounded him.
"Get up, vermin."
Unknown hands dragged Harry roughly off the ground, efore he could stop them, someone had rummaged through his pockets and removed the lackthorn wand. Harry clutched at his excruciatingly painful face, which felt unrecognizale eneath his fingers, tight, swollen, and puffy as though he had suffered some violent allergic reaction. His
eyes had een reduced to slits through which he could arely see; his glasses fell off as he was undled out of the tent: all he could make out were the lurred shapes of four or five people wrestling Ron and Hermione outside too.
"Get -- off - her!" Ron shouted. There was the unmistakale sound of knuckles hitting flesh: Ron grunted in pain and Hermione screamed, "No! Leave him alone, leave him alone!"
"Your oyfriends going to have worse than that done to him if hes on my list," said the horrily familiar, rasping voice. "Delicious girl... what a treat . . . I do enjoy the softness of the skin. . . ."
Harrys stomach turned over. He knew who this was, Fenrit Greyack, the werewolf who was permitted to wear Death Eater roes in return for his hired savagery.
"Search the tent!" said another voice.
Harry was thrown face down onto the ground. A thud told him that Ron had een cast down eside him. They could hear footsteps and crashes; the men were pushing over chairs inside the tent as they searched.
"Now, lets see who weve got," said Greyacks gloating voice from overhead, and Harry was rolled over onto his ack. A eam of wand light fell onto his face and Greyack laughed.
"Ill e needing uttereer to wash this one down. What happened to you, ugly?"
Harry did not answer immediately.
"I said," repeated Greyack, and Harry received a low to the diaphragm that made him doule over in pain. "what happened to you?"
"Stung." Harry muttered. "Been Stung."
"Yeah, looks like it." said a second voice.
"What’s your name?" snarled Greyack.
"Dudley." said Harry.
"And your first name?"
"I -- Vernon. Vernon Dudley."
"Check the list, Scaior." said Greyack, and Harry head him move sideways to look down at Ron, instead. "And what aout you, ginger?"
"Stan Shunpike." said Ron.
"Like ell you are." said the man called Scaior. "We know Stan Shunpike, es put a it of work our way."
There was another thud.
"I Bardy," said Ron, and Harry could tell that his mouth was full of lood. "Bardy Weasley."
"A Weasley?" rasped Greyack. "So youre related to lood traitors even if youre not a Mudlood. And lastly, your pretty little friend . . ." The relish in his voice made Harrys flesh crawl.
"Easy, Greyack." said Scaior over the jeering of the others.
"Oh, Im not going to ite just yet. Well see if she’s a it quicker at rememering her name than Barny. Who are you, girly?
"Penelope Clearwater." said Hermione. She sounded terrified, ut convincing.
"Whats your lood status?"
"Half-Blood." said Hermione.
"Easy enough to check," said Scaior. "But the ole lot of em look like they could still e ogwarts age -"
"We let," said Ron.
"Left, ave you, ginger?" said Scaior. "And you decided to go camping? And you thought, just for a laugh, youd use the Dark Lords name?"
"Nod a laugh," said Ron. "Aggiden."
"Accident?" There was more jeering laughter.
"You know who used to like using the Dark Lords name, Weasley?" growled Greyack, "The Order of the Phoenix. Mean anything to you?"
"Doh."
"Well, they dont show the Dark Lord proper respect, so the names een Taooed. A few Order memers have een tracked that way. Well see. Bind them up with the other two prisoners!"
Someone yanked Harry up y the hair, dragged him a short way, pushed him down into a sitting position, then started inding him ack-to-ack with other people. Harry was still half lind, arely ale to see anything through his puffed-up eyes. When at last the man tying then had walked away, Harry whispered to the other prisoners.
"Anyone still got a wand?"
"No." Said Ron and Hermione from either side of him.
"This is all my fault. I said the name. Im sorry -"
"Harry?"
It was a new, ut familiar voice. and it came from directly ehind Harry, from the person tied to Hermiones left.
"Dean?"
"It is you! If they find out who theyve got -! Theyre Snatchers, theyre only looking for truants to sell for gold -"
"Not a ad little haul for one night." Greyack was saying, as a pair of honailed oots marched close y Harry and they heard more crashes from inside the tent. "A Mudlood, a runaway golin, and these truants. You checked their names on the list yet, Scaior?" he roared.
"Yeah. Theres no Vernon Dudley un ere, Greyack."
"Interesting," said Greyack. "Thats interesting."
He crouched down eside Harry, who saw, through the infinitesimal gap left etween his swollen eyelids, a face covered in matted gray hair and whiskers, with pointed rown teeth and sores in the corners of his mouth. Greyack smelled as he had done at the top of the tower where Dumledore had died: of dirt, sweat, and lood.
"So you arent wanted, then, Vernon? Or are you on that list under a different name? What house were you in at Hogwarts?"
"Slytherin," said Harry automatically.
"Funny ow they all thinks we wants to ear that." leered Scaior out of the shadows. "But none of em can tell us where the common room is."
"Its in the dungeons." said Harry clearly. "You enter through the wall. Its full of skulls and stuff and its under the lake, so the lights all green,"
There was a short pause.
"Well, well, looks like we really ave caught a little Slytherin." said Scaior. "Good for you, Vernon, cause there aint a lot of Mudlood Slytherins. Whos your father?"
"He works at the Ministry," Harry lied. He knew that his whole story would collapse with the smallest investigation, ut on the other hand, he only had until his face regained its usual appearance efore the game was up in any case. "Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes."
"You know what, Greyack," said Scaior. "I think there is a Dudley in there."
Harry could arely reathe: Could luck, sheer luck, get them safely out of this?
"Well, well." said Greyack, and Harry could hear the tiniest note of trepidation in that callous voice, and knew that Greyack was wondering whether he had just indeed just attacked and ound the son of a Ministry Official. Harrys heart was pounding against the ropes around his ris; he would not have een surprised to know that Greyack could see it. "If youre telling the truth, ugly, youve got nothing to fear from a trip to the Ministry. I expect your fatherll reward us just for picking you up."
"But," said Harry, his mouth one dry, "if you just let us -"
"Hey!" came a shout from inside the tent. "Look at this. Greyack!"
A dark figure came ustling toward them, and Harry saw a glint of silver to the light of their wands. They had found Gryffindors sword.
"Ve-e-ery nice," said Greyack appreciatively, taking it from his companion. "Oh, very nice indeed. Looks golin-made, that. Where did you get something like this?"
"Its my fathers," Harry lied, hoping against hope that it was too dark for Greyack to see the name etched just elow the hilt. "We orrowed it to cut firewood -"
"ang on a minute, Greyack! Look at this, in the Prophet!"
As Scaior said it, Harrys scar, which was stretched tight across his distended forehead, urned savagely. More clearly than he could make out anything around him, he saw a towering uilding, a grim fortress, jet-lack and foridding: Voldemorts thoughts had suddenly ecome Razor-Sharp again; he was gliding toward the gigantic uilding with a sense of calmly euphoric purpose . . .
So close . . . So close . . .
With a huge effort of will Harry closed his mind to Voldemorts thoughts, pulling himself ack to where he sat, tied to Ron, Hermione, Dean, and Griphook in the darkness, listening to Greyack and Scaior.
"Hermione Granger," Scaior was saying, "the Mudlood who is known to e traveling with arry Potter."
Harrys scar urned in the silence, ut he made a supreme effort to keep himself present, nor to slip into Voldemorts mind. He heard the creak of Greyacks oots as he crouched down, in front of Hermione.
"you know what, little girly? This picture looks a hell of a lot like you."
"It isnt! It isnt me!"
Hermiones terrified squeak was as good as a confession.
"... known to e traveling with Harry Potter," repeated Greyack quietly.
A stillness had settled over the scene. Harrys scar was Exquisitely painful, ut he struggled with all his strength against the pull of Voldemorts thoughts. It had never een so important to remain in his own right mind.
"Well, this changed things, doesnt it?" whispered Greyack. Noody spoke: Harry sensed the gang of Snatchers watching, frozen, and felt Hermiones arm tremling against his. Greyack got up and took a couple of steps to where Harry sat, crouching down again to stare closely at his misshapen features.
"Whats that on your forehead, Vernon?" he asked softly, his reath foul in Harrys nostrils as he pressed a filthy finger to the taught scar.
"Dont touch it! Harry yelled; he could not stop himself, he thought he might e sick from the pain of it.
"I thought you wore glasses, Potter?" reathed Greyack.
"I found glasses!" yelped one of the Snatchers skulking in the ackground. "There was glasses in the tent, Greyack, wait -"
And seconds later Harrys glasses had een rammed ack onto his face. The Snatchers were closing in now, peering at him.
"It Is!" rasped Greyack. "Weve caught Potter!"
They all took several steps ackward, stunned y what they had done. Harry, still fighting to remain present in his own splitting head, could think of nothing to say. Fragmented visions were reaking across the surface of his mind -
--He was hiding around the high walls of the lack fortress--
No, he was Harry, tied up and wandless, in grave danger--
--looking up, up to the topmost window, the highest tower--
He was Harry, and they were discussing his fate in low voices--
--Time to fly . . .
". . . To the Ministry?"
"To hell with the Ministry." growled Greyack. "Theyll take the credit, and we wont get a look in. I say we take him straight to You-Know-Who."
"Will you summon im? ere?" said Scaior, sounding awed, terrified.
"No," snarled Greyack, "I havent got -- they say hes using the Malfoys place as a ase. Well take the oy there."
Harry thought he knew why Greyack was not calling Voldemort. The werewolf might e allowed to wear Death Eater roes when they wanted to use him, ut only Voldemorts inner circle were randed with the Dark Mark: Greyack had not een granted this highest honor.
Harry’s scar seared again -
- and he rose into the night, flying straight up to the windows at the very top of the tower -
". . . completely sure it’s him? ‘Cause if it ain’t, Greyack, we’re dead."
"Who’s in charge here?" roared Greyack, covering his moment of inadequacy. "I say that’s Potter, and him plus his wand, that’s two hundred thousand Galleons right there! But if you’re too gutless to come along, any of you, it’s all for me, and with any luck, I’ll get the girl thrown in!"
- The window was the merest slit in the lack rock, not ig enough for a man to enter. . . . A skeletal figure was just visile through it, curled eneath a lanket. . . . Dead, or sleeping . . . ?
"All right!" said Scaior. "All right, we’re in! And what aout the rest of ‘em, Greyack, what’ll we do with ‘em?"
"Might as well take the lot. We’ve got two Mudloods, that’s another ten Galleons. Give me the sword as well. If they’re ruies, that’s another small fortune right there."
The prisoners were dragged to their feet. Harry could hear Hermione’s reathing, fast and terrified.
"Gra hold and make it tight. I’ll do Potter!" said Greyack, seizing a fistful of Harry’s hair; Harry could feel his long yellow nails scratching his scalp. "On three! One - two - three -"
They Disapparated, pulling the prisoners with them. Harry struggled, trying to throw off Greyack’s hand, ut it was hopeless: Ron and Hermione were squeezed tightly against him on either side; he could not separate from the group, and as the reath was squeezed out of him his scar seared more painfully still -
- as he forced himself through the slit of a window like a snake and landed, lightly as vapor inside the cell-like room -
The prisoners lurched into one another as they landed in a country lane. Harry’s eyes, still puffy, took a moment to acclimatize, then he saw a pair of wrought-iron gates at the foot of what looked like a long drive. He experienced the tiniest trickle of relief. The worst had not happened yet: Voldemort was not here. He was, Harry knew, for he was fighting to resist the vision, in some strange, fortresslike place, at the top of a tower. How long it would take Voldemort to get to this place, once he knew that Harry was here, was another matter. . . .
One of the Snatchers strode to the gates and shook them.
"How do we get in? They’re locked, Greyack, I can’t - limey!"
He whipped his hands away in fright. The iron was contorting, twisting itself out of the astract furls and coils into a frightening face, which spoke in a clanging, echoing voice. "State your purpose!"
"We’ve got Potter!" Greyack roared triumphantly. "We’ve captured Harry Potter!"
The gates swung open.
"Come on!" said Greyack to his men, and the prisoners were shunted through the gates and up the drive, etween high hedges that muffled their footsteps. Harry saw a ghostly white shape aove him, and realized it was an alino peacock. He stumled and was dragged onto his feet y Greyack; now he was staggering along sideways, tied ack-to-ack to the four other prisoner. Closing his puffy eyes, he allowed the pain in his scar to overcome him for a moment, wanting to know what Voldemort was doing, whether he knew yet that Harry was caught. . . .
The emaciated figure stirred eneath its thin lanket and rolled over toward him, eyes opening in a skull of a face. . . . The frail man sat up, great sunken eyes fixed upon him, upon Voldemort, and then he smiled. Most of his teeth were gone. . . .
"So, you have come. I thought you would . . . one day. But your journey was pointless. I never had it."
"You lie!"
As Voldemort’s anger throed inside him, Harry’s scar threatened to urst with pain, and he wrenched his mind ack to his own ody, fighting to remain present as the prisoners were pushed over gravel.
Light spilled out over all of them.
"What is this?" said a woman’s cold voice.
"We’re here to see He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!" rasped Greyack.
"Who are you?"
"You know me!" There was resentment in the werewolf’s voice. "Fenrit Greyack! We’ve caught Harry Potter!"
Greyack seized Harry and dragged him around to face the light, forcing the other prisoners to shuffle around too.
"I know ‘es swollen, ma’am, ut it’s ‘im!" piped up Scaior. "If you look a it closer, you’ll see ‘is scar. And this ‘ere, see the girl? The Mudlood who’s een traveling around with ‘im, ma’am. There’s no dout it’s ‘im, and we’ve got ‘is wand as well! ‘Ere, ma’am -"
Through his puffy eyelids Harry saw Narcissa Malfoy scrutinizing his swollen face. Scaior thrust the lackthorn wand at her. She raised her eyerows.
"Bring them in," she said.
Harry and the others were shoved and kicked up road stone steps into a hallway lined with portraits.
"Follow me," said Narcissa, leading the way across the hall. "My son, Draco, is home for his Easter holidays. If that is Harry Potter, he will know."
The drawing room dazzled after the darkness outside; even with his eyes almost closed Harry could make out the wide proportions of the room. A crystal chandelier hung from the ceiling, more portraits against the dark purple walls. Two figures rose from chairs in front of an ornate marle fireplace as the prisoners were forced into the room y the Snatchers.
"What is this?"
The dreadfully familiar, drawling voice of Lucius Malfoy fell on Harry’s ears. He was panicking now. He could see no way out, and it was easier, as his fear mounted, to lock out Voldemort’s thoughts, though his scar was still urning.
"They say they’ve got Potter," said Narcissa’s cold voice. "Draco, come here." Harry did not dare look directly at Draco, ut saw him oliquely; a figure slightly taller than he was, rising from an armchair, his face a pale and pointed lur eneath white-lond hair.
Greyack forced the prisoners to turn again so as to place Harry directly eneath the chandelier.
"Well, oy?" rasped the werewolf.
Harry was facing a mirror over the fireplace, a great gilded thing in an intricately scrolled frame. Through the slits of his eyes he saw his own reflection for the first time since leaving Grimmauld Place.
His face was huge, shiny, and pink, every feature distorted y Hermione’s jinx. His lack hair reached his shoulders and there was a dark shadow around his jaw. Had he not known that it was he who stood there, he would have wondered who was wearing his glasses. He resolved not to speak, for his voice was sure to give him away; yet he still avoided eye contact with Draco as the latter approached.
"Well, Draco?" said Lucius Malfoy. He sounded avid. "Is it? Is it Harry Potter?" "I can’t - I can’t e sure," said Draco. He was keeping his distance from Greyack, and seemed as scared of looking at Harry as Harry was of looking at him.
"But look at him carefully, look! Come closer!"
Harry had never heard Lucius Malfoy so excited.
"Draco, if we are the ones who hand Potter over to the Dark Lord, everything will e forgiv -"
"Now, we won’t e forgetting who actually caught him, I hope Mr. Malfoy?" said Greyack menacingly.
"Of course not, of course not!" said Lucius impatiently. He approached Harry himself, came so close that Harry could see the usually languid, pale face in sharp detail even through his swollen eyes. With his face a puffy mask, Harry felt as though he was peering out from etween the ars of a cage.
"What did you do to him?" Lucius asked Greyack. "How did he get into this state?"
"That wasn’t us." "Looks more like a Stinging Jinx to me," said Lucius.
His gray eyes raked Harry’s forehead.
"There’s something there," he whispered. "it could e the scar, stretched tight. . . ." Draco, come here, look properly! What do you think?"
Harry saw Draco’s face up close now, right eside his father’s. They were extraordinarily alike, except that while his father looked eside himself with excitement, Draco’s expression was full of reluctance, even fear.
"I don’t know," he said, and he walked away toward the fireplace where his mother stood watching.
"We had etter e certain, Lucius," Narcissa called to her husand in her cold, clear voice. "Completely sure that it is Potter, efore we summon the Dark Lord . . . They say this is his" - she was looking closely at the lackthorn wand - "ut it does not resemle Ollivander’s description. . . . If we are mistaken, if we call the Dark Lord here for nothing . . . Rememer what he did to Rowle and Dolohov?"
"What aout the Mudlood, then?" growled Greyack. Harry was nearly thrown off his feet as the Snatchers forced the prisoners to swivel around again, so that the light fell on Hermione instead.
"Wait," said Narcissa sharply. "Yes - yes, she was in Madam Malkin’s with Potter! I saw her picture in the Prophet! Look, Draco, isn’t it the Granger girl?"
"I . . . maye . . . yeah."
"But then, that’s the Weasley oy!" shouted Lucius, striding around the ound prisoners to face Ron. "It’s them, Potter’s friends - Draco, look at him, isn’t it Arthur Weasley’s son, what’s his name - ?"
"Yeah," said Draco again, his ack to the prisoners. "It could e."
The drawing room door opened ehind Harry. A woman spoke, and the sound of the voice wound Harry’s fear to an even higher pitch.
"What is this? What’s happened, Cissy?"
Bellatrix Lestrange walked slowly around the prisoners, and stopped on Harry’s right, staring at Hermione through her heavily lidded eyes,
"But surely," she said quietly, "this is the Mudlood girl? This is Grander?"
"Yes, yes, it’s Granger!" cried Lucius, "And eside her, we think, Potter! Potter and his friends, caught at last!" "Potter?" shrieked Bellatrix, and she acked away, the etter to take in Harry.
"Are you sure? Well then, the Dark Lord must e informed at once!" She dragged ack her left sleeve: Harry saw the Dark Mark urned into the flesh of her arm, and knew that she was aout to touch it, to summon her eloved master-
"I was aout to call him!" said Lucius, and his hand actually closed upon Bellatrix’s wrist, preventing her from touching the Mark. "I shall summon him, Bella. Potter has een rought to my house, and it is therefore upon my authority -"
"Your authority!" she sneered, attempting to wrench her hand from his grasp. "You lost your authority when you lost your wand, Lucius! How dare you! Take your hands off me!"
"This is nothing to do with you, you did not capture the oy -"
"Begging your pardon, Mr. Malfoy," interjected Greyack, "ut it’s us that caught Potter, and it’s us that’ll e claiming the gold -"
"Gold!" laughed Bellatrix, still attempting to throw off her rother-in-law, her free hand groping in her pocket for her wand. "Take your gold, filthy scavenger, what do I want with gold? I seek only the honor of his - of -"
She stopped struggling, her dark eyes fixed upon something Harry could not see. Juilant at her capitulation, Lucius threw her hand from him and ripped up his own sleeve -
"STOP!" shrieked Bellatrix, "Do not touch it, we shall all perish if the Dark Lord comes now!"
Lucius froze, his index finger hovering over his own Mark. Bellatrix strode out of Harry’s limited line of vision.
"What is that?" he heard her say.
"Sword," grunted an out-of-sight Snatcher.
"Give it to me."
"It’s not yours, missus, it’s mine, I reckon I found it."
There was a ang and a flash of red light; Harry knew that the Snatcher had een Stunned. There was a roar of anger from his fellows: Scaior drew his wand.
"What d’you think you’re playing at, woman?"
"Stupefy!" she screamed, "Stupefy!"
They were no match for her, even thought there were four of them against one of her: She was a witch, as Harry knew, with prodigious skill and no conscience. They fell where they stood, all except Greyack, who had een forced into a kneeling position, his arms outstretched. Out of the corners of his eyes Harry saw Bellatrix earing down upon the werewolf, the sword of Gryffindor gripped tightly in her hand, her face waxen.
"Where did you get this sword?" she whispered to Greyack as she pulled his wand out of his unresisting grip.
"How dare you?" he snarled, his mouth the only thing that could move as he was forced to gaze up at her. He ared his pointed teeth. "Release me, woman!" "Where did you find this sword?" she repeated, randishing it in his face, "Snape sent it to my vault in Gringotts!"
"It was in their tent," rasped Greyack. "Release me, I say!"
She waved her wand, and the werewolf sprang to his feet, ut appeared too wary to approach her. He prowled ehind an armchair, his filthy curved nails clutching its ack.
"Draco, move this scum outside," said Bellatrix, indicating the unconscious men. "If you haven’t got the guts to finish them, then leave them in the courtyard for me."
"Don’t you dare speak to Draco like -" said Narcissa furiously, ut Bellatrix screamed.
"Be quiet! The situation is graver than you can possily imagine, Cissy! We have a very serious prolem!"
She stood, panting slightly, looking down at the sword, examining its hilt. Then she turned to look at the silent prisoners.
"If it is indeed Potter, he must not e harmed," she muttered, more to herself than to the others. "The Dark Lord wishes to dispose of Potter himself. . . . But if he finds out . . . I must . . . I must know. . . ."
She turned ack to her sister again.
"The prisoners must e placed in the cellar, while I think what to do!" "This is my house, Bella, you don’t give orders in my -"
"Do it! You have no idea of the danger we’re in!" shrieked Bellatrix. She looked frightening, mad; a thin stream of fire issued from her wand and urned a hole in the carpet.
Narcissa hesitated for a moment, then addressed the werewolf.
"Take these prisoners down to the cellar, Greyack."
"Wait," said Bellatrix sharply. "All except. . . . except for the Mudlood." Greyack gave a grunt of pleasure.
"No!" shouted Ron. "You can have me, keep me!" Bellatrix hit him across the face: the low echoed around the room.
"If she dies under questioning, I’ll take you next," she said. "Blood traitor is next to Mudlood in my ook. Take them downstairs, Greyack, and make sure they are secure, ut do nothing more to them - yet."
She threw Greyack’s wand ack to him, then took a short silver knife from under her roes. She cut Hermione free from the other prisoners, then dragged her y the hair into the middle of the room, while Greyack forced the rest of them to shuffle across to another door, into a dark passageway, his wand held out in front of him, projecting an invisile and irresistile force.
"Reckon she’ll let me have a it of the girl when she’s finished with her?" Greyack crooned as he forced them along the corridor. "I’d say I’ll get a ite or two, wouldn’t you, ginger?"
Harry could feel Ron shaking. They were forced down a steep flight of stairs, still tied ack-to-ack and in danger of slipping and reaking their necks at any moment. At the ottom was a heavy door. Greyack unlocked it with a tap of his wand, then forced them into a dank and musty room and left them in total darkness. The echoing ang of the slammed cellar door had not died away efore there was a terrile, drawn out scream from directly aove them.
"HERMIONE!" Ron ellowed, and he started to writhe and struggle against the ropes tying them together, so that Harry staggered. "HERMIONE!"
"Be quiet!" Harry said. "Shut up. Ron, we need to work out a way -"
"HERMIONE! HERMIONE!"
"We need a plan, stop yelling - we need to get these ropes off -"
"Harry?" came a whisper through the darkness. "Ron? Is that you?"
Ron stopped shouting. There was a sound of movement close y them, then Harry saw a shadow moving closer.
"Harry? Ron?"
"Luna?"
"Yes, it’s me! Oh no, I didn’t want you to e caught!"
"Luna, can you help us get these ropes off?" said Harry.
"Oh yes, I expect so. . . . There’s an old nail we use if we need to reak anything. . . . Just a moment . . ."
Hermione screamed again from overhead, and they could hear Bellatrix screaming too, ut her words were inaudile, for Ron shouted again, "HERMIONE! HERMIONE!"
"Mr. Ollivander?" Harry could hear Luna saying. "Mr. Ollivander, have you got the nail? If you just move over a little it . . . I think it was eside the water jug."
She was ack within seconds.
"You’ll need to stay still," she said.
Harry could feel her digging at the rope’s tough fiers to work the knots free. From upstairs they heard Bellatrix’s voice.
"I’m going to ask you again! Where did you get this sword? Where?"
"We found it - we found it - PLEASE!" Hermione screamed again; Ron struggled harder than ever, and the rusty nail slipped onto Harry’s wrist.
"Ron, please stay still!" Luna whispered. "I can’t see what I’m doing -"
"My pocket!" said Ron, "In my pocket, there’s a Deluminator, and it’s full of light!"
A few seconds later, there was a click, and the luminescent spheres the Deluminator had sucked from the lamps in the tent flew into the cellar: Unale to rejoin their sources, they simply hung there, like tiny suns, flooding the underground room with light. Harry saw Luna, all eyes in her white face, and the motionless figure of Ollivander the wandmaker, curled up on the floor in the corner. Craning around, he caught sight of their fellow prisoners: Dean and Griphook the golin, who seemed arely conscious, kept standing y the ropes that ound him to the humans.
"Oh, that’s much easier, thanks, Ron," said Luna, and she egan hacking at their indings again. "Hello, Dean!"
From aove came Bellatrix’s voice.
"You’re lying, filthy Mudlood, and I know it! You have een inside my vault at Gringotts! Tell the truth, tell the truth!"
Another terrile scream-
"HERMIONE!"
"What else did you take? What else have you got? Tel me the truth or, I swear, I shall run you through with this knife!"
"There!"
Harry felt the ropes fall away and turned, ruing his wrists, to see Ron running around the cellar, looking up at the low ceiling, searching for a trapdoor. Dean, his face ruised and loody, said "Thanks" to Luna and stood there, shivering, ut Griphook sank onto the cellar floor, looking groggy and disoriented, many welts across his swarthy face.
Ron was now trying to Disapparate without a wand.
"There’s no way out, Ron," said Luna, watching his fruitless efforts. "The cellar is completely escape-proof. I tried, at first. Mr. Ollivander has een here for a long time, he’s tried everything."
Hermione was screaming again: The sound went through Harry like physical pain. Barely conscious of the fierce prickling of his scar, he too started to run around the cellar, feeling the walls for he hardly knew what, knowing in his heart that it was useless.
"What else did you take, what else? ANSWER ME! CRUCIO!"
Hermione’s screams echoed off the walls upstairs, Ron was half soing as he pounded the walls with his fists, and Harry in utter desperation seized Hagrid’s pouch from around his neck and groped inside it: He pulled out Dumledore’s Snitch and shook it, hoping for he did not know what - nothing happened - he waved the roken halves of the phoenix wand, ut they were lifeless - the mirror fragment fell sparkling to the floor, and he saw a gleam of rightest lue -
Dumledore’s eye was gazing at him out of the mirror.
"Help us!" he yelled at it in mad desperation. "We’re in the cellar of Malfoy Manor, help us!"
The eye linked and was gone.
Harry was not even sure that it had really een there. He tilted the shard of mirror this way and that, and saw nothing reflected there ut the walls and ceiling of their prison, and upstairs Hermione was screaming worse than ever, and next to him Ron was ellowing, "HERMIONE! HERMIONE!"
"How did you get into my vault?" they heard Bellatrix scream. "Did that dirty little golin in the cellar help you?"
"We only met him tonight!" Hermione soed. "We’ve never een inside your vault. . . . It isn’t the real sword! It’s a copy, just a copy!"
"A copy?" screeched Bellatrix. "Oh, a likely story!"
"But we can find out easily!" came Lucius’s voice. "Draco, fetch the golin, he can tell us whether the sword is real or not!"
Harry dashed across the cellar to where Griphook was huddled on the floor.
"Griphook," he whispered into the golin’s pointed ear, "you must tell them that sword’s a fake, they mustn’t know it’s the real one, Griphook, please -"
He could hear someone scuttling own the cellar steps; next moment, Draco’s shaking voice spoke from ehind the door.
"Stand ack. Line up against the ack wall. Don’t try anything, or I’ll kill you!"
They did as they were idden; as the lock turned, Ron clicked the Deluminator and the lights whisked ack into his pocket, restoring the cellar’s darkness. The door flew open; Malfoy marched inside, wand held out in front of him, pale and determined. He seized the little golin y the arm and acked out again, dragging Griphook with him. The door slammed shut and at the same moment a loud crack echoed inside the cellar.
Ron clicked the Deluminator. Three alls of light flew ack into the air from his pocket, revealing Doy the house-elf, who had just Apparated into their midst.
"DOB - !"
Harry hit Ron on the arm to stop him shouting, and Ron looked terrified at his mistake. Footsteps crossed the ceiling overhead: Draco marching Griphook to Bellatrix.
Doy’s enormous, tennis-all shaped eyes were wide; he was tremling from his feet to the tips of his ears. He was ack in the home of his old masters, and it was clear that he was petrified.
"Harry Potter," he squeaked in the tiniest quiver of a voice, "Doy has come to rescue you."
"But how did you - ?"
An awful scream drowned Harry’s words: Hermione was eing tortured again. He cut to the essentials.
"You can Disapparate out of this cellar?" he asked Doy, who nodded, his ears flapping.
"And you can take humans with you?"
Doy nodded again.
"Right. Doy, I want you to gra Luna, Dean, and Mr. Ollivander, and take them - take them to -"
"Bill and Fleur’s," said Ron. "Shell Cottage on the outskirts of Tinworth!"
The elf nodded for a third time.
"And then come ack," said Harry. "Can you do that, Doy?"
"Of course, Harry Potter," whispered the little elf. He hurried over to Mr. Ollivander, who appeared to e arely conscious. He took one of the wandmaker’s hands in his own, then held out the other to Luna and Dean, neither of whom moved.
"Harry, we want to help you!" Luna whispered.
"We can’t leave you here," said Dean.
"Go, oth of you! We’ll see you at Bill and Fleur’s."
As Harry spoke, his scar urned worse than ever, and for a few seconds he looked down, not upon the wandmaker, ut on another man who was just as old, just as thin, ut laughing scornfully.
"Kill me, then. Voldemort, I welcome death! But my death will not ring you what you seek. . . . There is so much you do not understand. . ."
He felt Voldemort’s fury, ut as Hermione screamed again he shut it out, returning to the cellar and the horror of his own present.
"Go!" Harry eseeched to Luna and Dean. "Go! We’ll follow, just go!"
They caught hold of the elf’s outstretched fingers. There was another loud crack, and Doy, Luna, Dean, and Ollivander vanished.
"What was that?" shouted Lucius Malfoy from over their heads. "Did you hear that? What was that noise in the cellar?"
Harry and Ron stared at each other.
"Draco - no, call Wormtail! Make him go and check!"
Footsteps crossed the room overhead, then there was silence. Harry knew that the people in the drawing room were listening for more noises from the cellar.
"We’re going to have to try and tackle him," he whispered to Ron. They had no choice: The moment anyone entered the room and saw the asence of three prisoners, they were lost. "Leave the lights on," Harry added, and as they heard someone descending the steps outside the door, they acked against the wall on either side of it.
"Stand ack," came Wormtail’s voice. "Stand away from the door. I’m coming in." The door flew open. For a split second Wormtail gazed into the apparently empty cellar, alaze with light from the three miniature suns floating in midair. Then Harry and Ron launched themselves upon him. Ron seized Wormtail’s wand arm and forced it upwards. Harry slapped a hand to his mouth, muffling his voice. Silently they struggled: Wormtail’s wand emitted sparks; his silver hand closed around Harry’s throat.
"What is it, Wormtail?" called Lucius Malfoy from aove.
"Nothing!" Ron called ack, in a passale imitation of Wormtail’s wheezy voice. "All fine!"
Harry could arely reathe.
"You’re going to kill me?" Harry choked, attempting to prise off the metal fingers. "After I saved your life? You owe me, Wormtail!"
The silver fingers slackened. Harry had not expected it: He wrenched himself free, astonished, keeping his hand over Wormtail’s mouth. He saw the ratlike man’s small watery eyes widen with fear and surprise: He seemed just as shocked as Harry at what his hand had done, at the tiny, merciful impulse it had etrayed, and he continued to struggle more powerfully, as though to undo that moment of weakness.
"And we’ll have that," whispered Ron, tugging Wormtail’s wand from his other hand.
Wandless, helpless, Pettigrew’s pupils dilated in terror. His eyes had slid from Harry’s face to something else. His own silver fingers were moving inexoraly toward his own throat.
"No -"
Without pausing to think, Harry tried to drag ack the hand, ut there was no stopping it. The silver tool that Voldemort had given his most cowardly servant had turned upon its disarmed and useless owner; Pettigrew was reaping his reward for his hesitation, his moment of pity; he was eing strangled efore their eyes.
"No!"
Ron had released Wormtail too, and together he and Harry tried to pull the crushing metal fingers from around Wormtail’s throat, ut it was no use. Pettigrew was turning lue.
"Relashio!" said Ron, pointing the wand at the silver hand, ut nothing happened; Pettigrew dropped to his knees, and at the same moment, Hermione gave a dreadful scream from overhead. Wormtail’s eyes rolled upward in his purple face; he gave a last twitch, and was still.
Harry and Ron looked at each other, then leaving Wormtail’s ody on the floor ehind them, ran up the stairs and ack into the shadowy passageway leading to the drawing room. Cautiously they crept along it until they reached the drawing room door, which was ajar. Now they had a clear view of Bellatrix looking down at Griphook, who was holding Gryffindor’s sword in his long-fingered hands. Hermione was lying at Bellatrix’s feet. She was arely stirring.
"Well?" Bellatrix said to Griphook. "Is it the true sword?"
Harry waited, holding his reath, fighting against the prickling of his scar.
"No," said Griphook. "It is a fake."
"Are you sure?" panted Bellatrix. "Quite sure?"
"Yes," said the golin.
Relief roke across her face, all tension drained from it.
"Good," she said, and with a casual flick of her wand she slashed another deep cut into the golin’s face, and he dropped with a yell at her feet. She kicked him aside. "And now," she said in a voice that urst with triumph, "we call the Dark Lord!"
And she pushed ack her sleeve and touched her forefinger to the Dark Mark.
At once, Harry’s scar felt as though it had split open again. His true surroundings vanished: He was Voldemort, and the skeletal wizard efore him was laughing
toothlessly at him; he was enraged at the summons he felt - he had warned them, he had told them to summon him for nothing less than Potter. If they were mistaken . . .
"Kill me, then!" demanded the old man. "You will not win, you cannot win! That wand will never, ever e yours -"
And Voldemort’s fury roke: A urst of green light filled the prison room and the frail old ody was lifted from its hard ed and then fell ack, lifeless, and Voldemort returned to the window, his wrath arely controllale. . . . They would suffer his retriution if they had no good reason for calling him ack. . . .
"And I think," said Bellatrix’s voice, "we can dispose of the Mudlood. Greyack, take her if you want her."
"NOOOOOOOOOOOO!"
Ron had urst into the drawing room; Bellatrix looked around, shocked; she turned her wand to face Ron instead -
"Expelliarmus!" he roared, pointing Wormtail’s wand at Bellatrix, and hers flew into the air and was caught y Harry, who had sprinted after Ron. Lucius, Narcissa, Draco and Greyack wheeled aout; Harry yelled, "Stupefy!" and Lucius Malfoy collapsed onto the hearth. Jets of light flew from Draco’s, Narcissa’s, and Greyack’s wands; Harry threw himself to the floor, rolling ehind a sofa to avoid them.
"STOP OR SHE DIES!
Panting, Harry peered around the edge of the sofa. Bellatrix was supporting Hermione, who seemed to e unconscious, and was holding her short silver knife to Hermione’s throat.
"Drop your wands," she whispered. "Drop them, or we’ll see exactly how filthy her lood is!"
Ron stood rigid, clutching Wormtail’s wand. Harry straightened up, still holding Bellatrix’s.
"I said, drop them!" she screeched, pressing the lade into Hermione’s throat: Harry saw eads of lood appear there.
"All right!" he shouted, and he dropped Bellatrix’s wand onto the floor at his feet, Ron did the same with Wormtail’s. Both raised their hands to shoulder height.
"Good!" she leered. "Draco, pick them up! The Dark Lord is coming, Harry Potter! Your death approaches!"
Harry knew it; his scar was ursting with the pain of it, and he could feel Voldemort flying through the sky from far away, over a dark and stormy sea, and soon he would e close enough to Apparate to them, and Harry could see no way out.
"Now," said Bellatrix softly, as Draco hurried ack to her with the wands. "Cissy, I think we ought to tie these little heroes up again, while Greyack takes care of Miss Mudlood. I am sure the Dark Lord will not egrudge you the girl, Greyack, after what you have done tonight."
At the last word there was a peculiar grinding noise from aove. All of them looked upward in time to see the crystal chandelier tremle; then, with a creak and an ominous jingling, it egan to fall. Bellatrix was directly eneath it; dropping Hermione, she threw herself aside with a scream. The chandelier crashed to the floor in an explosion of crystal and chains, falling on top of Hermione and the golin, who still clutched the sword of Gryffindor. Glittering shards of crystal flew in all directions; Draco douled over, his hands covering his loody face.
As Ron ran to pull Hermione out of the wreckage, Harry took the chance: He leapt over an armchair and wrested the three wands from Draco’s grip, pointed all of them at Greyack, and yelled, "Stupefy!" The werewolf was lifted off his feet y the triple spell, flew up to the ceiling and then smashed to the ground.
As Narcissa dragged Draco out of the way of further harm, Bellatrix sprang to her feet, her hair flying as she randished the silver knife; ut Narcissa had directed her wand at the doorway.
"Doy!" she screamed and even Bellatrix froze. "You! You dropped the chandelier - ?"
The tiny elf trotted into the room, his shaking finger pointing at his old mistress.
"You must not hurt Harry Potter," he squeaked.
"Kill him, Cissy!" shrieked Bellatrix, ut there was another loud crack, and Narcissa’s wand too flew into the air and landed on the other side of the room.
"You dirty little monkey!" awled Bellatrix. "How dare you take a witch’s wand, how dare you defy your masters?"
"Doy has no master!" squealed the elf. "Doy is a free elf, and Doy has come to save Harry Potter and his friends!"
Harry’s scar was linding him with pain. Dimly he knew that they had moments, seconds efore Voldemort was with them.
"Ron, catch - and GO!" he yelled, throwing one of the wands to him; then he ent down to tug Griphook out from under the chandelier. Hoisting the groaning golin, who still clung to the sword, over one shoulder, Harry seized Doy’s hand and spun on the spot to Disapparate.
As he turned into darkness he caught one last view of the drawing room of the pale, frozen figures of Narcissa and Draco, of the streak of red that was Ron’s hair, and a lue of flying silver, as Bellatrix’s knife flew across the room at the place where he was vanishing -
Bill and Fleur’s . . . Shell Cottage . . . Bill and Fleur’s . . .
He had disappeared into the unknown; all he could do was repeat the name of the destination and hope that it would suffice to take him there. The pain in his forehead pierced him, and the weight of the golin ore down upon him; he could feel the lade of Gryffindor’s sword umping against his ack: Doy’s hand jerked in his; he wondered whether the elf was trying to take charge, to pull them in the right direction, and tried, y squeezing the fingers, to indicate that that was fine with them. . . .
And then they hit solid earth and smelled salty air. Harry fell to his knees, relinquished Doy’s hand, and attempted to lower Griphook gently to the ground.
"Are you all right?" he said as the golin stirred, ut Griphook merely whimpered.
Harry squinted around through the darkness. There seemed to e a cottage a short way away under the wide starry sky, and he thought he saw movement outside it.
"Doy, is this Shell Cottage?" he whispered, clutching the two wands he had rought from the Malfoys’, ready to fight if he needed to. "Have we come to the right place? Doy?"
He looked around. The little elf stood feet from him.
"DOBBY!"
The elf swayed slightly, stars reflected in his wide, shining eyes. Together, he and Harry looked down at the silver hilt of the knife protruding from the elf’s heaving chest.
"Doy - no - HELP!" Harry ellowed toward the cottage, toward the people moving there. "HELP!"
He did not know or care whether they were wizards or Muggles, friends or foes; all he cared aout was that a dark stain was spreading across Doy’s front, and that he had stretched out his own arms to Harry with a look of supplication. Harry caught him and laid him sideways on the cool grass.
"Doy, no, don’t die, don’t die -"
The elf’s eyes found him, and his lips tremled with the effort to form words.
"Harry . . . Potter . . ."
And then with a little shudder the elf ecame quite still, and his eyes were nothing more than great glassy ors, sprinkled with light from the stars they could not see."
Chapter Twenty-Four
The Wandmaker
It was like sinking into an old nightmare; for an instant Harry knelt again eside Dumledore’s ody at the foot of the tallest tower at Hogwarts, ut in reality he was staring at a tiny ody curled upon the grass, pierced y Bellatrix’s silver knife. Harry’s voice was still saying, "Doy...Doy..." even though he knew that the elf had gone where he could not call him ack.
After a minute or so he realized that they had, after all, come to the right place, for here were Bill and Fleur, Dean and Luna, gathering around him as he knelt over the elf. "Hermione," he said suddenly. "Where is she?"
"Ron’s taken her inside," said Bill. "She’ll e all right." Harry looked ack down at Doy. He stretched out a hand and pulled the sharp lade from the elf’s ody, then dragged off his own jacket and covered Doy in it like a lanket.
The sea was rushing against the rock somewhere neary; Harry listened to it while the others talked, discussing matters in which he could take no interest, making decisions, Dean carried the injured Griphook into the house, Fleur hurrying with them; now Bill was really knowing what he was saying. As he did so, he gazed down at the tiny ody, and his scar prickled and urned, and in one part of his mind, viewed as if from the wrong end of a long telescope, he saw Voldemort punishing those they had left ehind at the Malfoy Manor. His rage was dreadful and yet Harry’s grief for Doy seemed to diminish it, so that it ecame a distant storm that reached Harry from across a vast, silent ocean.
"I want to do it properly," were the first words of which Harry was fully conscious of speaking. "Not y magic. Have you got a spade?" And shortly afterward he had set to work, alone, digging the grave in the place that Bill had shown him at the end of the garden, etween ushes. He dug with a kind of fury, relishing the manual work, glorying in the non-magic of it, for every drop of his sweat and every lister felt like a gift to the elf who had saved their lives.
His scar urned, ut he was master of the pain, he felt it, yet was apart from it. He had learned control at last, learned to shut his mind to Voldemort, the very thing Dumledore had wanted him to learn from Snape. Just as Voldemort had not een ale to possess Harry while Harry was consumed with grief for Sirius, so his thoughts could not penetrate Harry now while he mourned Doy. Grief, it seemed, drove Voldemort out...though Dumledore, of course, would have said that it was love.
On Harry dug, deeper and deeper into the hard, cold earth, susuming his grief in sweat, denying the pain in his scar. In the darkness, with nothing ut the sound of his own reath and the rushing sea to keep him company, the things that had happened at the Malfoys’ returned to him, the things he had heard came ack to him, and understanding lossomed in the darkness...
The steady rhythm of his arms eat time with his thoughts. Hallows...Horcruxes...Hallows...Horcruxes...yet no longer urned with that weird, osessive longing. Loss and fear had snuffed it out. He felt as though he had een slapped awake again.
Deeper and deeper Harry sank into the grave, and he knew where Voldemort had een tonight, and whom he had killed in the topmost cell of Nurmengard, and why...
And he thought of Wormtail, dead ecause of one small unconscious impulse of mercy...Dumledore had foreseen that...How much more had he known?
Harry lost track of time. He knew only that the darkness had lightened a few degrees when he was rejoined y Ron and Dean. "How’s Hermione?" "Better," said Ron. "Fleur’s looking after her." Harry had his retort ready for when they asked him why he had not simply created a perfect grave with his wand, ut he did not need it. They jumped down into the hole he had made with spades of their own and together they worked in silence until the hole seemed deep enough.
Harry wrapped the elf more snuggly in his jacket. Ron sat on the edge of the grave and stripped off his shoes and socks, which he placed on the elf’s are feet. Dean produced a woolen hat, which Harry placed carefully upon Doy’s head, muffling his atlike ears. "We should close his eyes."
Harry had not heard the others coming through the darkness. Bill was wearing a traveling cloak, Fleur a large white apron, from the pocket of which protruded a ottle of what Harry recognized to e Skele-Gro. Hermione was wrapped in a orrowed dressing gown, pale and unsteady on her feet; Ron put an arm around her when she reached him. Luna, who was huddled in one of Fleur’s coats, crouched down and placed her fingers tenderly upon each of the elf’s eyelids, sliding them over his glassy stare. "There," she said softly. "Now he could e sleeping."
Harry placed the elf into the grave, arranged his tiny lims so that he might have een resting, then climed out and gazed for the last time upon the little ody. He forced himself not to reak down as he rememered Dumledore’s funeral, and the rows and rows of golden chairs, and the Minister of Magic in the front row, the recitation of
Dumledore’s achievements, the stateliness of the white marle tom. He felt that Doy deserved just as grand a funeral, and yet here the elf lay etween ushes in a roughly dug hole. "I think we ought to say something," piped up Luna. "I’ll go first, shall I?"
And as everyody looked at her, she addressed the dead elf at the ottom of the grave. "Thank you so much Doy for rescuing me from that cellar. It’s so unfair that you had to die when you were so good and rave. I’ll always rememer what you did for us. I hope you’re happy now."
She turned and looked expectingly at Ron, who cleared his throat and said in a thick voice, "yeah...thanks Doy." "Thanks," muttered Dean. Harry swallowed. "Good ye Doy," he said It was all he could manage, ut Luna had said it all for him. Bill raised his wand, and the pile of earth eside the grave rose up into the air and fell neatly upon it, a small, reddish mound. "D’ya mind if I stay here a moment?" He asked the others.
They murmured words he did not catch; he felt gentle pats upon his ack, and then they all traipsed ack toward the cottage, leaving Harry alone eside the elf.
He looked around: There were a numer of large white stones, smoothed y the sea, marking the edge of the flower eds. He picked up one of the largest and laid it, pillowlike, over the place where Doy’s head now rested. He then felt in his pocket for a wand. There were two in there. He had forgotten, lost track; he could not now rememer whose wands these were; he seemed to rememer wrenching them out of someone’s hand. He selected the shorter of the two, which felt friendlier in his hand, and pointed it at the rock.
Slowly, under his murmured instruction, deep cuts appeared upon the rock’s surface. He knew that Hermione could have done it more neatly, and proaly more quickly, ut he wanted to mark the spot as he had wanted to dig the grave. When Harry stood up again, the stone read: HERE LIES DOBBY, A FREE ELF.
He looked at his handiwork for a few more seconds, then walked away, his scar still prickling a little, and his mind full of those things that had come to him in the grave, ideas that had taken shape in the darkness, ideas oth fascinating and terrile.
They were all sitting in the living room when he entered the little hall, their attention focused upon Bill, who was talking. The room was light-colored, pretty, with a small fire of driftwood urning rightly in the fireplace. Harry did not want to drop mud upon the carpet, so he stood in the doorway, listening.
"...lucky that Ginny’s on holiday. If she’d een at Hogwarts they could have taken her efore we reached her. Now we know she’s safe too." He looked around and saw Harry standing there. "I’ve een getting them all out of the Burrow," he explained. "Moved them to Muriel’s. The Death Eaters know Ron’s with you now, they’re ound to target the family -don’t apologize," he added at the sight of Harry’s expression. "It was always a matter of time, Dad’s een saying so for months. We’re the iggest lood traitor family there is."
"How are they protected?" asked Harry. "Fidelius Charm. Dad’s Secret-Keeper. And we’ve done it on this cottage too; I’m Secret-Keeper here. None of us can go to work, ut that’s hardly the most important thing now. Once Ollivander and Griphook are well enough, we’ll move them to Muriel’s too. There isn’t much room here, ut she’s got
plenty. Griphook’s legs are on the mend. Fleur’s given him Skele-Gro-we could proaly move them in an hour or-"
"No," Harry said and Bill looked startled. "I need oth of them here. I need to talk to them. It’s important." He heard the authority of his own voice, the conviction, the voice of purpose that had come to him as he dug Doy’s grave. All of their faces were turned toward him looking puzzled.
"I’m going to wash," Harry told Bill looking down at his hands still covered with mud and Doy’s lood. "Then I’ll need to see them, straight away." He walked into the little kitchen, to the asin eneath a window overlooking the sea. Dawn was reaking over the horizon, shell pink and faintly gold, as he washed, again following the train of thought that had come to him in the dark garden...
Doy would never e ale to tell them who had sent him to the cellar, ut Harry knew what he had seen. A piercing lue eye had looked out of the mirror fragment, and then help had come. Help will always e given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it.
Harry dried his hands, impervious to the eauty of the scene outside the window and to the murmuring of the others in the sitting room. He looked out over the ocean and felt closer, this dawn, than ever efore, closer to the heart of it all.
And still his scar prickled, and he knew that Voldemort was getting there too. Harry understood and yet did not understand. His instinct was telling him one thing, his rain quite another. The Dumledore in Harry’s head smiled, surveying Harry over the tips of his fingers, pressed together as if in prayer.
You gave Ron the Deluminator...You understood him...You gave him a way ack...
And you understood Wormtail too...You knew there was a it of regret there, somewhere...
And if you knew them...What did you know aout me, Dumledore?
Am I meant to know ut not to seek? Did you know how hard I’d feel that? Is that why you made it this difficult? So I’d have time to work that out?
Harry stood quite still, eyes glazed, watching the place where a right gold ray of dazzling sun was rising over the horizon. Then he looked down at his clean hands and was momentarily surprised to see the cloth he was holding in them. He set it down and returned to the hall, and as he did so, he felt his scar pulse angrily, and then flashed across his mind, swift as the reflection of a dragonfly over water, the outline of a uilding he knew extremely well.
Bill and Fleur were standing at the foot of the stairs.
"I need to speak to Griphook and Ollivander," Harry said.
"No," said Fleur. "You will ‘ave to wait, ‘Arry. Zey are oth too tired -"
"I’m sorry," he said without heat, "ut it can’t wait. I need to talk to them now. Privately - and separately. It’s urgent."
"Harry, what the hell’s going on?" asked Bill. "You turn up here with a dead house-elf and a half-conscious golin, Hermione looks as though she’s een tortured, and Ron’s just refused to tell me anything -"
"We can’t tell you what we’re doing," said Harry flatly. "You’re in the Order, Bill, you know Dumledore left us a mission. We’re not supposed to talk aout it to anyone else."
Fleur made an impatient noise, ut Bill did not look at her; he was staring at Harry. His deeply scarred face was hard to read. Finally, Bill said, "All right. Who do you want to talk to first?"
Harry hesitated. He knew what hung on his decision. There was hardly any time left; now was the moment to decide: Horcruxes or Hallows?
"Griphook," Harry said. "I’ll speak to Griphook first."
His heart was racing as if he had een sprinting and had just cleared an enormous ostacle.
"Up here, then," said Bill, leading the way.
Harry had walked up several steps efore stopping and looking ack.
"I need you two as well!" he called to Ron and Hermione, who had een skulking, half concealed, in the doorway of the sitting room.
They oth moved into the light, looking oddly relieved.
"How are you?" Harry asked Hermione. "You were amazing - coming up with that story when she was hurting you like that -"
Hermione gave a weak smile as Ron gave her a one-armed squeeze.
"What are we doing now, Harry?" he asked.
"You’ll see. Come on."
Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed Bill up the steep stairs onto a small landing. Three doors led off it.
"In here," said Bill, opening the door into his and Fleur’s room, it too had a view of the sea, now flecked with gold in the sunrise. Harry moved to the window, turned his ack on the spectacular view, and waited, his arms folded, his scar prickling. Hermione took the chair eside the dressing tale; Ron sat on the arm.
Bill reappeared, carrying the little golin, whom he set down carefully upon the ed. Griphook grunted thanks, and Bill left, closing the door upon them all.
"I’m sorry to take you out of ed," said Harry. "How are your legs?"
"Painful," replied the golin. "But mending."
He was still clutching the sword of Gryffindor, and wore a strange look: half truculent, half intrigued. Harry noted the golin’s sallow skin, his long thin fingers, his lack eyes. Fleur had removed his shoes: His long feet were dirty. He was larger than a house-elf, ut not y much. His domed head was much igger than a human’s.
"You proaly don’t rememer -" Harry egan.
"-that I was the golin who showed you to your vault, the first time you ever visited Gringotts?" said Griphook. "I rememer, Harry Potter. Even amongst golins, you are very famous."
Harry and the golin looked at each other, sizing each other up. Harry’s scar was still prickling. He wanted to get through this interview with Griphook quickly, and at the same time was afraid of making a false move. While he tried to decide on the est way to approach his request, the golin roke the silence.
"You uried the elf," he said, sounding unexpectedly rancorous. "I watched you from the window of the edroom next door."
"Yes," said Harry.
Griphook looked at him out of the corners of his slanting lack eyes.
"You are an unusual wizard, Harry Potter."
"In what way?" asked Harry, ruing his scar asently.
"You dug the grave."
"So?"
Griphook did not answer. Harry rather thought he was eing sneered at for acting like a Muggle, ut it did not matter to him whether Griphook approved of Doy’s grave or not. He gathered himself for the attack.
"Griphook, I need to ask -"
"You also rescued a golin."
"What?"
"You rought me here. Saved me."
"Well, I take it you’re not sorry?" said Harry a little impatiently.
"No, Harry Potter," said Griphook, and with one finger he twisted the thin lack eard upon his chin, "ut you are a very odd wizard."
"Right," said Harry. "Well, I need some help, Griphook, and you can give it to me."
The golin made no sign of encouragement, ut continued to frown at Harry as though he had never seen anything like him.
"I need to reak into a Gringotts vault."
Harry had not meant to say it so adly: the words were forced from him as pain shot through his lightning scar and he saw, again, the outline of Hogwarts. He closed his mind firmly. He needed to deal with Griphook first. Ron and Hermione were staring at Harry as though he had gone mad.
"Harry -" said Hermione, ut she was cut off y Griphook.
"Break into a Gringotts vault?" repeated the golin, wincing a little as he shifted his position upon the ed. "It is impossile."
"No, it isn’t," Ron contradicted him. "It’s een done."
"Yeah," said Harry. "The same day I first met you, Griphook. My irthday, seven years ago."
"The vault in question was empty at the time," snapped the golin, and Harry understood that even though Griphook had let Gringotts, he was offended at the idea of its defenses eing reached. "Its protection was minimal."
"Well, the vault we need to get into isn’t empty, and I’m guessing its protection will e pretty powerful," said Harry. "It elongs to the Lestranges."
He saw Hermione and Ron look at each other, astonished, ut there would e time enough to explain after Griphook had given his answer.
"You have no chance," said Griphook flatly. "No chance at all. If you seek eneath our floors, a treasure that was never yours -"
"Thief, you have een warned, eware - yeah, I know, I rememer," said Harry. "But I’m not trying to get myself any treasure, I’m not trying to take anything for personal gain. Can you elieve that?"
The golin looked slantwise at Harry, and the lightning scar on Harry’s forehead prickled, ut he ignored it, refusing to acknowledge its pain or its invitation.
"If there was a wizard of whom I would elieve that they did not seek personal gain," said Griphook finally, "it would e you, Harry Potter. Golins and elves are not used to the protection or the respect that you have shown this night. Not from wand-carriers."
"Wand-carriers," repeated Harry: The phrase fell oddly upon his ears as his scar prickled, as Voldemort turned his thoughts northward, and as Harry urned to question Ollivander next door.
"The right to carry a wand," said the golin quietly, "has long een contested etween wizards and golins."
"Well, golins can do magic without wands," said Ron.
"That is immaterial! Wizards refuse to share the secrets of wand-lore with other magical eings, they deny us the possiility of extending our powers!"
"Well, golins won’t share any of their magic either," said Ron. "You won’t tell us how to make swords and armor the way you do. Golins know how to work metal in a way wizards have never -"
"It doesn’t matter," said Harry, noting Griphook’s rising color. "This isn’t aout wizards versus golins or any other sort of magical creature -"
Griphook gave a nasty laugh.
"But it is, it is precisely that! As the Dark Lord ecomes ever more powerful, your race is set still more firmly aove mine! Gringotts falls under Wizarding rule, house-elves are slaughtered, and who amongst the wand-carriers protests?"
"We do!" said Hermione. She had sat up straight, her eyes right. "We protest! And I’m hunted quite as much as any golin or elf, Griphook! I’m a Mudlood!"
"Don’t call yourself -" Ron muttered.
"Why shouldn’t I?" said Hermione. "Mudlood, and proud of it! I’ve got no higher position under this new order than you have, Griphook! It was me they chose to torture, ack at the Malfoys!"
As she spoke, she pulled aside the neck of the dressing gown to reveal the thin cut Bellatrix had made, scarlet against her throat.
"Did you know that it was Harry who set Doy free?" she asked. "Did you know that we’ve wanted elves to e freed for years?" (Ron fidgeted uncomfortaly on the arm of Hermione’s chair.) "You can’t want You-Know-Who defeated more than we do, Griphook!"
The golin gazed at Hermione with the same curiousity he had shown Harry.
"What do you seek within the Lestranges’ vault?" he asked aruptly. "The sword that lies inside it is a fake. This is the real one." He looked from one to the other of them. "I think that you already know this. You asked me to lie for you ack there."
"But the fake sword isn’t the only thing in that vault, is it?" asked Harry. "Perhaps you’ve seen other things in there?"
His heart was pounding harder than ever. He redouled his efforts to ignore the pulsing of his scar.
The golin twisted his eard around his finger again.
"It is against our code to speak of the secrets of Gringotts. We are the guardians of faulous treasures. We have a duty to the ojects placed in our care, which were, so often, wrought y our fingers."
The golin stroked the sword, and his lack eyes roved from Harry to Hermione to Ron and then ack again.
"So young," he said finally, "to e fighting so many."
"Will you help us?" said Harry. "We haven’t got a hope of reaking in without a golin’s help. You’re our one chance."
"I shall . . . think aout it," said Griphook maddeningly.
"But -" Ron started angrily; Hermione nudged him in the ris.
"Thank you," said Harry.
The golin owed his great domed head in acknowledgement, then flexed his short legs.
"I think," he said, settling himself ostentatiously upon Bill and Fleur’s ed, "that the Skele-Gro has finished its work. I may e ale to sleep at last. Forgive me. . . ."
"Yeah, of course," said Harry, ut efore leaving the room he leaned forward and took the sword of Gryffindor from eside the golin. Griphook did not protest, ut Harry thought he saw resentment in the golin’s eyes as he closed the door upon him.
"Little git," whispered Ron. "He’s enjoying keeping us hanging."
"Harry," whispered Hermione, pulling them oth away from the door, into the middle of the still-dark landing, "are you saying what I think you’re saying? Are you saying there’s a Horcrux in the Lestranges vault?"
"Yes," said Harry. "Bellatrix was terrified when she thought we’d een in there, she was eside herself. Why? What did she think we’d seen, what else did she think we might have taken? Something she was petrified You-Know-Who would find out aout."
"But I thought we were looking for places You-Know-Who’s een, places he’s done something important?" said Ron, looking affled. "Was he ever inside the Lestranges’ vault?"
"I don’t know whether he was ever inside Gringotts," said Harry. "He never had gold there when he was younger, ecause noody left him anything. He would have seen the ank from the outside, though, the first time he ever went to Diagon Alley."
Harry’s scar throed, ut he ignored it; he wanted Ron and Hermione to understand aout Gringotts efore they spoke to Ollivander.
"I think he would have envied anyone who had a key to a Gringotts vault. I think he’d have seen it as a real symol of elonging to the Wizarding world. And don’t forget, he trusted Bellatrix and her husand. They were his most devoted servants efore he fell, and they went looking for him after he vanished. He said it night he came ack, I heard him."
Harry rued his scar.
"I don’t think he’d have told Bellatrix it was a Horcrux, though. He never told Lucius Malfoy the truth aout the diary. He proaly told her it was a treasured possession and asked her to place it in her vault. The safest place in the world for anything you want to hide, Hagrid told me. . . except for Hogwarts."
When Harry had finished speaking, Ron shook his head.
"You really understand him."
"Bits of him," said Harry. "Bits . . . I just wish I’d understood Dumledore as much. But we’ll see. Come on - Ollivander now."
Ron and Hermione looked ewildered ut very impressed as they followed him across the little landing and knocked upon the door opposite Bill and Fleur’s. A weak "Come in!" answered them.
The wandmaker was lying on the twin ed farthest from the window. He had een held in the cellar for more than a year, and tortured, Harry knew, on at least one occasion. He was emaciated, the ones of his face sticking out sharply against the yellowish skin. His great silver eyes seemed vast in their sunken sockets. The hands that lay upon the
lanket could have elonged to a skeleton. Harry sat down on the empty ed, eside Ron and Hermione. The rising sun was not visile here. The room faced the cliff-top garden and the freshly dug grave.
"Mr. Ollivander, I’m sorry to distur you," Harry said.
"My dear oy," Ollivander’s voice was feele. "You rescued us, I thought we would die in that place, I can never thank you . . . never thank you . . . enough."
"We were glad to do it."
Harry’s scar throed. He knew, he was certain, that there was hardly any time left in which to eat Voldemort to his goal, or else to attempt to thwart him. He felt a flutter of panic . . . yet he had made his decision when he chose to speak to Griphook first. Feigning a calm he did not feel, he groped in the pouch around his neck and took out the two halves of his roken wand.
"Mr. Ollivander, I need some help."
"Anything. Anything." Said the wandmaker weakly.
"Can you mend this? Is it possile?"
Ollivander held out a tremling hand, and Harry placed the two arely connected halves in his palm.
"Holly and phoenix feather," said Ollivander in a tremulous voice. "Eleven inches. Nice and supple."
"Yes," said Harry. "Can you -- ?"
"No," whispered Ollivander. "I am sorry, very sorry, ut a wand that has suffered this degree of damage cannot e repaired y any means that I know of."
Harry had een raced to hear it, ut it was a low nevertheless. He took the wand halves ack and replaced them in the pouch around his neck. Ollivander stared at the place where the shattered wand had vanished, and did not look away until Harry had taken from his pocket the two wands he had rought from the Malfoys’.
"Can you identify these?" Harry asked.
The wandmaker took the first of the wands and held it close to his faded eyes, rolling it etween his knole-knuckled fingers, flexing it slightly.
"Walnut and dragon heartstring," he said. "Twelve-and-three-quarter inches. Unyielding. This wand elonged to Bellatrix Lestrange."
"And this one?"
Ollivander performed the same examination.
"Hawthorn and unicorn hair. Ten inches precisely. Reasonaly springy. This was the wand of Draco Malfoy."
"Was?" repeated Harry. "Isn’t it still his?"
"Perhaps not. If you took it -"
"-I did - "
"-then it may e yours. Of course, the manner of taking matters. Much also depends upon the wand itself. In general, however, where a wand has een won, its allegiance will change."
There was a silence in the room, except for the distant rushing of the sea.
"You talk aout wands like they’ve got feelings," said Harry, "like they can think for themselves."
"The wand chooses the wizard," said Ollivander. "That much has always een clear to those of us who have studied wandlore."
"A person can still use a wand that hasn’t chosen them, though?" asked Harry.
"Oh yes, if you are any wizard at all you will e ale to channel your magic through almost any instrument. The est results, however, must always come where there is the strongest affinity etween wizard and wand. These connections are complex. An initial attraction, and then a mutual quest for experience, the wand learning from the wizard, the wizard from the wand."
The sea gushed forward and ackward; it was a mournful sound. "I took this wand from Draco Malfoy y force," said Harry. "Can I use it safely?"
"I think so. Sutle laws govern wand ownership, ut the conquered wand will usually end its will to its new master."
"So I should use this one?" said Ron, pulling Wormtail’s wand out of his pocket and handing it to Ollivander.
"Chestnut and dragon heartstring. Nine-and-a-quarter inches. Brittle. I was forced to make this shortly after my kidnapping, for Peter Pettigrew. Yes, if you won it, it is more likely to do your idding, and do it well, than another wand."
"And this holds true for all wands, does it?" asked Harry.
"I think so," replied Ollivander, his protuerant eyes upon Harry’s face. "You ask deep questions, Mr. Potter. Wandlore is a complex and mysterious ranch of magic."
"So, it isn’t necessary to kill the previous owner to take the possession of a wand?" asked Harry.
Ollivander swallowed.
"Necessary? No, I should not say that it is necessary to kill."
"There are legends, though," said Harry, and as his heart rate quickened, the pain in his scar ecame more intense; he was sure that Voldemort has decided to put his idea into action. "Legends aout a wand - or wands - that have een passed from hand to hand y murder."
Ollivander turned pale. Against the snowy pillow he was light gray, and his eyes were enormous, loodshot, and ulging with what looked like fear.
"Only one wand, I think," he whispered.
"And You-Know-Who is interested in it, isn’t he?" asked Harry.
"I - how?" croaked Ollivander, and he looked appealingly at Ron and Hermione for help. "How do you know this?"
"He wanted you to tell him how to overcome the connection etween our wands," said Harry.
Ollivander looked terrified.
"He tortured me, you must understand that! The Cruciatus Curse, I - I had no choice ut to tell him what I knew, what I guessed!"
"I understand," said Harry. "You told him aout the twin cores? You said he just had to orrow another wizard’s wand?"
Ollivander looked horrified, transfixed, y the amount that Harry knew. He nodded slowly.
"But it didn’t work," Harry went on. "Mine still eat the orrowed wand. Do you know why that is?"
Ollivander shook his head slowly as he had just nodded.
"I had . . . never heard of such a thing. Your wand performed something unique that night. The connection of the twin cores is incredily rare, yet why your wand would have snapped the orrowed wand, I do not know. . . .
"We were talking aout the other wand, the wand that changes hands y murder. When You-Know-Who realized my wand had done something strange, he came ack and asked aout that other wand, didn’t he?"
"How do you know this?"
Harry did not answer.
"Yes, he asked," whispered Ollivander. "He wanted to know everything I could tell him aout the wand variously known as the Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny, or the Elder Wand."
Harry glanced sideways at Hermione. She looked flaggergasted.
"The Dark Lord," said Ollivander in hushed and frightened tones, "had always een happy with the wand I made him - yes and phoenix feather, thirteen-and-a-half inches. - until he discovered the connection of the twin cores. Now he seeks another, more powerful wand, as the only way to conquer yours."
"But he’ll know soon, if he doesn’t already, that mine’s roken eyond repair," said Harry quietly.
"No!" said Hermione, sounding frightened. "He can’t know that, Harry, how could he --?"
"Priori Incantatem," said Harry. "We left your wand and the lackthorn wand at the Malfoys’, Hermione. If they examine them properly, make them re-create the spells they’ve cast lately, they’d see that yours roke mine, they’ll see that you tried and failed to mend it, and they’ll realize that I’ve een using the lackthorn one ever since."
The little color she had regained since their arrival had drained from her face. Ron gave Harry a reproachful look, and said, "Let’s not worry aout that now ---"
But Mr. Ollivander intervened.
"The Dark Lord no longer seeks the Elder Wand only for your destruction, Mr. Potter. He is determined to possess it ecause he elieves it will make him truly invulnerale."
"And will it?"
"The owner of the Elder Wand must always fear attack," said Ollivander, "ut the idea of the Dark Lord in possession of the Deathstick is, I must admit . . . formidale."
Harry was suddenly reminded of how unsure, when they first met, of how much he like Ollivander. Even now, having een tortured and imprisoned y Voldemort, the idea of the Dark Wizard in possession of this wand seemed to enthrall him as much as it repulsed him.
"You - you really think this wand exists, then, Mr. Ollivander?" asked Hermione.
"Oh yes," said Ollivander. "Yes, it is perfectly possile to trace the wand’s course through history. There are gaps, of, course, and long ones, where it vanishes from view, temporarily lost or hidden; ut always it resurfaces. It has certain identifying characteristics that those who are learned in wandlore recognize. There are written accounts, some of them oscure, that I and other wandmakers have made it our usiness to study. They have the ring of authenticity."
"So you - you don’t think it can e a fairy tale or a myth?" Hermione asked hopefully.
"No," said Ollivander. "Whether it needs to pass y murder, I do not know. Its history is loody, ut that may e simply due to the fact that it is such a desirale oject, and arouses such passions in wizards. Immensely powerful, dangerous in the wrong hands, and an oject of incredile fascination to all of us who study the power of wands."
"Mr. Ollivander," said Harry, "you told You-Know-Who that Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand, didn’t you?"
Ollivander turned, if possile, even paler. He looked ghostly as he gulped.
"But how - how do you -- ?"
"Never mind how I know it," said Harry, closing his eyes momentarily as his scar urned and he saw, for mere seconds, a vision of the main street in Hogsmeade, still dark, ecause it was so much farther north. "You told You-Know-Who that Gregorovitch had the wand?"
"It was a rumor," whispered Ollivander. "A rumor, years and years ago, long efore you were orn I elieve Gregorovitch himself started it. You can see how good it would e for usiness; that he was studying and duplicating the qualities of the Elder Wand!"
"Yes, I can see that," said Harry. He stood up. "Mr. Ollivander, one last thing, and then we’ll let you get some rest. What do you know aout the Deathly Hallows?"
"The - the what?" asked the wandmaker, looking utterly ewildered.
"The Deathly Hallows."
"I’m afraid I don’t know what you’re talking aout. Is this still something to do with wands?"
Harry looked into the sunken face and elieved that Ollivander was not acting. He did not know aout the Hallows.
"Thank you," said Harry. "Thank you very much. We’ll leave you to get some rest now."
Ollivander looked stricken.
"He was torturing me!" he gasped. "The Cruciatus Curse . . . you have no idea. . . ."
"I do," said Harry, "I really do. Please get some rest. Thank you for telling me all of this."
He led Ron and Hermione down the staircase. Harry caught glimpses of Bill, Fleur, Luna, and Dean sitting at the tale in the kitchen, cups of tea in front of them. They all looked up at Harry as he appeared in the doorway, ut he merely nodded to them and continued into the garden, Ron and Hermione ehind him. The reddish mound of earth that covered Doy lay ahead, and Harry walked ack to it, as the pain in his head uilt more and more powerfully. It was a huge effort now to close down the visions that were forcing themselves upon him, ut he knew that he would have to resist only a little longer. He would yield very soon, ecause he needed to know that his theory was right. He must make only one more short effort, so that he could explain to Ron and Hermione.
"Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand a long time ago," he said, "I saw You-Know-Who trying to find him. When he tracked him down, he found that Gregorovitch didn’t have it anymore: It was stolen from him y Grindelwald. How Grindelwald found out that Gregorovitch had it, I don’t know - ut if Gregorovitch was stupid enough to spread the rumor, it can’t have een that difficult."
Voldemort was at the gates of Hogwarts; Harry could see him standing there, and see too the lamp oing in the pre-dawn, coming closer and closer.
"And Grindelwald used the Elder Wand to ecome powerful. And at the height of his power, when Dumledore knew he was the only one who could stop him, he dueled Grindelwald and eat him, and he took the Elder Wand."
"Dumledore had the Elder Wand?" said Ron. "But then - where is it now?"
"At Hogwarts," said Harry, fighting to remain with them in the cliff-top garden.
"But then, let’s go!" said Ron urgently. "Harry, let’s go and get it efore he does!"
"It’s too late for that," said Harry. He could not help himself, ut clutched his head, trying to help it resist. "He knows where it is. He’s there now."
"Harry!" Ron said furiously. "How long have you known this - why have we een wasting time? Why did you talk to Griphook first? We could have gone - we could still go -"
"No," said Harry, and he sank to his knees in the grass. "Hermione’s right. Dumledore didn’t want me to have it. He didn’t want me to take it. He wanted me to get the Horcruxes."
"The uneatale wand, Harry!" moaned Ron.
"I’m not supposed to . . . I’m supposed to get the Horcruxes. . . ."
And now everything was cool and dark: The sun was arely visile over the horizon as he glided alongside Snape, up through the grounds toward the lake.
"I shall join you in the castle shortly," he said in his high, cold voice. "Leave me now."
Snape owed and set off ack up the path, his lack cloak illowing ehind him. Harry walked slowly, waiting for Snape’s figure to disappear. It would not do for Snape, or indeed anyone else, to see where he was going. But there were no lights in the castle windows, and he could conceal himself . . . and in a second he had cast upon himself a Disillusionment Charm that hid him even from his own eyes.
And he walked on, around the edge of the lake, taking in the outlines of the eloved castle, his first kingdom, his irthright. . . .
And here it was, eside the lake, reflected in the dark waters. The white marle tom, an unnecessary lot on the familiar landscape. He felt again that rush of controlled euphoria, that heady sense of purpose in destruction. He raised the old yew wand: How fitting that this would e its last great act.
The tom split open from head to foot. The shrouded figure was as long as thin as it had een in life. He raised the wand again.
The wrappings fell open. The face was translucent, pale, sunken, yet almost perfectly preserved. They had left his spectacles on the crooked nose: He felt amused derision. Dumledore’s hands were folded upon his chest, and there it lay, clutched eneath them, uried with him.
Had the old fool imagined that marle or death would protect the wand? Had he thought that the Dark Lord would e scared to violate his tom? The spiderlike hand swooped and pulled the wand from Dumledore’s grasp, and as he took it, a shower of sparks flew from its tip, sparkling over the corpse of its last owner, ready to serve a new master at last.
Chapter Twenty-Five
Shell Cottage
Bill and Fleurs cottage stood alone on a cliff overlooking the sea, its walls emedded with shells and whitewashed. It was a lonely and eautiful place. Wherever Harry went inside the tiny cottage or its garden, he could hear the constant e and flow of the sea, like the reathing of some great, slumering creature. He spent much of the next few days making excuses to escape the crowded cottage, craving the cliff-top view of open sky and wide, empty sea, and the feel of cold, salty wind on his face.
The enormity of his decision not to race Voldemort to the wand still scared Harry. He could not rememer, ever efore, choosing /not/ to act. He was full of douts, douts that Ron could not help voicing whenever they were together.
"What if Dumledore wanted us to work out the symol in time to get the wand?" "What if working out what the symol meant made you worthy to get the Hallows?" "Harry, if that really is the Elder Wand, how the hell are we supposed to finish off You-Know-Who?"
Harry had no answers: There were moments when he wondered whether it had een outright madness not to try to prevent Voldemort reaking open the tom. He could not even explain satisfactorily why he had decided against it: Every time he tried to reconstruct the internal arguments that had led to his decision, they sounded feeler to him.
The odd thing was that Hermiones support made him feel just as confused as Rons douts. Now forced to accept that the Elder Wand was real, she maintained that it was an evil oject, and that the way Voldemort had taken possession of it was repellent, not to e considered.
"You could never have done that, Harry," she said again and again. "You couldnt have roken into Dumledores grave."
But the idea of Dumledores corpse frightened Harry much less than the possiility that he might have misunderstood the living Dumledores intentions. He felt that he was still groping in the dark; he had chosen his path ut kept looking ack, wondering whether he had misread the signs, whether he should not have taken the other way. From time to time, anger at Dumledore crashed over him again, powerful as the waves slamming themselves against the cliff eneath the cottage, anger that Dumledore had not explained efore he died.
"But /is/ he dead?" said Ron, three days after they had arrived at the cottage. Harry had een staring out over the wall that separated the cottage garden from the cliff when Ron and Hermione had found him; he wished they had not, having no wish to join in with their argument.
"Yes, he is. Ron, /please" dont start that again!"
"Look at the facts, Hermione," said Ron, speaking across Harry, who continued to gaze at the horizon. "The solve doe. The sword. The eye Harry saw in the mirror --"
"Harry admits he could have imagined the eye! Dont you, Harry?"
"I could have," said Harry without looking at her.
"But you dont thing you did, do you?" asked Ron.
"No, I dont," said Harry.
"There you go!" said Ron quickly, efore Hermione could carry on. "If it wasnt Dumledore, explain how Doy knew we were in the cellar, Hermione?"
"I cant -- ut can you explain how Dumledore sent him to us if hes lying in a tom at Hogwarts?"
"I dunno, it couldve een his ghost!"
"Dumledore wouldnt come ack as a ghost," said Harry. There was little aout Dumledore he was sure of now, ut he knew that much. "He would have gone on."
"What dyou mean, gone on?" asked Ron, ut efore Harry could say any more, a voice ehind them said, "Arry?"
Fleur had come out of the cottage, her long silver hair flying in the reeze.
"Arry, Gripook would like to speak to you. E eez in ze smallest edroom, e says e does not want to e overeard."
Her dislike of the golin sending her to deliver messages was clear; she looked irritale as she walked ack around the house.
Griphook was waiting for them, as Fleur had said, in the tiniest of the cottages three edrooms, in which Hermione and Luna slept y night. He had drawn the red cotton curtains against the right, cloudy sky, which gave the room a fiery glow at odds with the rest of the airy, light cottage.
"I have reached my decision, Harry Potter," said the golin, who was sitting cross-legged in a low chair, drumming its arms with his spindly fingers. "Though the golins of Gringotts will consider it ase treachery, I have decided to help you --"
"Thats great!" said Harry, relief surging through him. "Griphook, thank you, were really --"
"-- in return," said the golin firmly, "for payment."
Slightly taken aack, Harry hesitated.
"How much do you want? Ive got gold."
"Not gold," said Griphook. "I have gold."
His lack eyes glittered; there were no whites to his eyes.
"I want the sword. The sword of Godric Gryffindor."
Harrys spirits plummeted.
"You cant have that," he said. "Im sorry."
"Then," said the golin softly, "we have a prolem."
"We can give you something else," said Ron eagerly. "Ill et the Lestranges have got loads of stuff, you can take your pick once we get into the vault."
He had said the wrong thing. Griphook flushed angrily.
"I am not a thief, oy! I am not trying to procure treasures to which I have no right!"
"The swords ours --"
"it is not," said the golin.
"Were Gryffindors, and it was Godric Gryffindors --"
"And efore it was Gryffindors, whose was it?" demanded the golin, sitting up straight.
"No ones," said Ron. "It was made for him, wasnt it?"
"No!" cried the golin, ristling with anger as he pointed a long finger at Ron. "Wizarding arrogance again! That sword was Ragnuk the Firsts, taken from him y Godric Gryffindor! It is a _____ _________, a masterpiece of golinwork! It elongs with the gol___. The sword is the price of my hire, take it or leave it!"
Griphook glared at them. Harry glanced at the other ____, then said, "We need to discuss this, Griphook, if thats all right. Could you give us a few minutes?"
The golin nodded, looking sour.
Downstairs in the empty sitting room, Harry walked to the fireplace, row furrowed, trying to think what to do. Behind him, Ron said, "Hes having a laugh. We cant let him have that sword."
"It is true?" Harry asked Hermione. "Was the sword stolen y Gryffindor?"
"I dont know," she said hopelessly. "Wizarding history often skates over what the wizards have done to other magical races, ut theres no account that I know of that says Gryffindor stole the sword."
"Itll e one of those golin stories," said Ron, "aout how the wizards are always trying to get one over on them. I suppose we should think ourselves lucky he hasnt asked for one of our wands."
"Golins have got good reason to dislike wizards, Ron." said Hermione. "Theyve een treated rutally in the past."
"Golins arent exactly fluffy little unnies, though, are they?" said Ron. "Theyve killed plenty of us. Theyve fought dirty too."
"But arguing with Griphook aout whose race is most underhanded and violent isnt going to make him more likely to help us, is it?"
There was a pause while they tried to think of a way around the prolem. Harry looked out of the window at Doys grave. Luna was arranging sea lavender in a jam jar eside the headstone.
"Okay," said Ron, and Harry turned ack to face him, "hows this? We tell Griphook we need the sword until we get inside the _____ and then he can have it. Theres a fake in these, isnt there? We switch them, and give him the fake."
"Ron, hed know the difference etter than we would!" said Hermione. "Hes the only one who realized there had een a swap!"
"Yeah, ut we could _ca_per efore he realizes --"
He quailed eneath the look Hermione was giving him.
"That," she said quietly, "is despicale. Ask for his help, then doule-cross him? And you wonder why golins dont like wizards, Ron?"
Rons ears had turned red.
"All right, all right! It was the only thing I could think of! Whats your solution, then?"
"We need to offer him something else, something just as valuale."
"Brilliant, Ill go and get one of our ancient golin-made swords and you can gift wrap it."
Silence fell etween them again. Harry was sure that the golin would accept nothing ut the sword, even if they had something as valuale to offer him. Yet the sword was their one, indispensale weapon against the Horcruxes.
He closed his eyes for a moment or two and listened to the rush of the sea. The idea that Gryffindor might have stolen the sword was unpleasant to him: He had always een
proud to e a Gryffindor; Gryffindor had een the champion of Muggle-orns, the wizard who had clashed with the purelood-loving Slytherin....
"Maye hes lying," Harry said, opening his eyes again. "Griphook. Maye Gryffindor didnt take the sword. How do we know the golin version of historys right?"
"Does it make a difference?" asked Hermione.
"Changes how I feel aout it," said Harry.
He took a deep reath.
"Well tell him he can have the sword after hes helped us get into that vault -- ut well e careful to avoid telling him exactly /when/ he can have it."
A grin spread slowly across Rons face. Hermione, however, looked alarmed.
"Harry, we cant --"
"He can have it," Harry went on, "after weve used it on all of the Horcruxes. Ill make sure he gets it then. Ill keep my word."
"But that could e years!" said Hermione.
"I know that, ut /he/ neednt. I wont e lying... really."
Harry met her eyes with a mixture of defiance and shame. He rememered the words that had een engraved over the gateway to Nurmengard: FOR THE GREATER GOOD. He pushed the idea away. What choice did they have?
"I dont like it," said Hermione.
"Nor do I, much," Harry admitted.
"Well, I think its genius," said Ron, standing up again. "Lets go and tell him."
Back in the smallest edroom, Harry made the offer, careful to phrase it so as not to give any definite time for the handover of the sword. Hermione frowned at the floor while he was speaking; he felt irritated at her, afraid that she might give the game away. However, Griphook had eyes for noody ut Harry.
"I have your word, Harry Potter, that you will give me the sword of Gryffindor if I help you?"
"Yes," said Harry.
"Then shake," said the golin, holding out his hand.
Harry took it and shook. He wondered whether those lack eyes saw any misgivings in his own. Then Griphook relinquished him, clapped his hands together, and said, "So. We egin!"
It was like planning to reak into the Ministry all over again. They settled to work in the smallest edroom, which was kept, according to Griphooks preference, in semidarkness.
"I have visited the Lestranges vault only once," Griphook told them, "on the occasion I was told to place inside it the false sword. It is one of the most ancient chamers. The oldest Wizarding families store their treasures at the deepest level, where the vaults are largest and est protected...."
They remained shut in the cupoardlike room for hours at a time. Slowly the days stretched into weeks. There was prolem after prolem to overcome, not least of which was that their store of Polyjuice Potion was greatly depleted.
"Theres really only enough left for one of us," said Hermione, tilting the thick mudlike potion against the lamplight.
"Thatll e enough," said Harry, who was examining Griphooks hand-drawn map of the deepest passageways.
The other inhaitants of Shell Cottage could hardly fail to notice that something was going on now that Harry, Ron and Hermione only emerged for mealtimes. Noody asked questions, although Harry often felt Bills eyes on the three of them at the tale, thoughtful, concerned.
The longer they spent together, the more Harry realized that he did not much like the golin. Griphook was unexpectedly loodthirsty, laughed at the idea of pain in lesser creatures and seemed to relish the possiility that they might have to hurt other wizards to reach the Lestranges vault. Harry could tell that his distaste was shared y the other two, ut they did not discuss it. They needed Griphook.
The golin ate only grudgingly with the rest of them. Even after his legs had mended, he continued to request trays of food in his room, like the still-frail Ollivander, until Bill (following an angry outurst from Fleur) went upstairs to tell him that the arrangement could not continue. Thereafter Griphook joined them at the overcrowded tale, although he refused to eat the same food, insisting, instead, on lumps of raw meat, roots, and various fungi.
Harry felt responsile: It was, after all, he who had insisted that the golin remain at Shell Cottage so that he could question him; his fault that the whole Weasley family had een driven into hiding, that Bill, Fred, George, and Mr. Weasley could no longer work.
"Im sorry," he told Fleur, one lustery April evening as he helped her prepare dinner. "I never meant you to have to deal with all of this."
She had just set some knives to work, chipping up steaks for Griphook and Bill, who had preferred his meat loody ever since he had een attacked y Greyack. While the knives sliced ehind her, her somewhat irritale expression softened.
"Arry, you saved my sisters life, I do not forget."
This was not, strictly speaking, true, ut Harry decided against reminding her that Garielle had never een in real danger.
"Anyway," Fleur went on, pointing her want at a pot of sauce on the stove, which egan to ule at once, "Mr. Ollivander leaves for Muriels zis evening. Zat will make zings easier. Ze golin," she scowled a little at the mention of him, "can move downstairs, and you, Ron, and Dean can take zat room."
"We dont mind sleeping in the living room," said Harry, who knew that Griphook would thing poorly of having to sleep on the sofa; keeping Griphook happy was essential to their plans. "Dont worry aout us." And when she tried to protest he went on, "Well e off your hands soon too, Ron, Hermione, and I. We wont need to e here much longer."
"But, what do you mean?" she said, frowning at him, her wand pointing at the casserole dish now suspended in midair. "Of course you must not leave, you are safe ere!"
She looked rather like Mrs. Weasley as she said it, and he was glad that the ack door opened at that moment. Luna and Dean entered, their hair damp from the rain outside and their arms full of driftwood.
"... and tiny little ears," Luna was saying, "a it like hippos, Daddy says, only purple and hairy. And if you want to call them, you have to hum; they prefer a waltz, nothing too fast...."
Looking uncomfortale, Dean shrugged at Harry as he passed, following Luna into the comined dining and sitting room where Ron and Hermione were laying the dinner tale. Seizing the chance to escape Fleurs questions, Harry graed two jugs of pumpkin juice and followed them.
"... and if you ever come to our house Ill e ale to show you the horn, Daddy wrote to me aout it ut I havent seen it yet, ecause the Death Eaters took me from the Hogwarts Express and I never got home for Christmas," Luna was saying, as she and Dean relit the fire.
"Luna, we told you," Hermione called over to her. "That horn exploded. It came from an Erumpent, not a Crumple-Horned Snorkack --"
"No, it was definitely a Snorkack horn," said Luna serenely, "Daddy told me. It will proaly have re-formed y now, they mend themselves, you know."
Hermione shook her head and continued laying down forks as Bill appeared, leading Mr. Ollivander down the stairs. The wandmaker still looked exceptionally frail, and he clung to Bills arm as the latter supported him, carrying a large suitcase.
"Im going to miss you, Mr. Ollivander," said Luna, approaching the old man.
"And I you, my dear," said Ollivander, patting her on the shoulder.
"You were an inexpressile comfort to me in that terrile place."
"So, au revoir, Mr. Ollivander," said Fleur, kissing him on oth cheeks. "And I wonder whezzer you could olige me y delivering a package to Bills Auntie Murie!? I never returned er tiara."
"It will e an honor," said Ollivander with a little ow, "the very least I can do in return for your generous hospitality."
Fleur drew out a worn velvet case, which she opened to show the wandmaker. The tiara sat glittering and twinkling in the light from the low-hanging lamp.
"Moonstones and diamonds," said Griphook, who had sidled into the room without Harry noticing. "Made y golins, I think?"
"And paid for y wizards," said Bill quietly, and the golin shot him a look that was oth furtive and challenging.
A strong wind gusted against the cottage windows as Bill and Ollivander set off into the night. The rest of them squeezed in around the tale; elow to elow and with arely enough room to move, they started to eat. The fire crackled and popped in the grate eside them. Fleur, Harry noticed, was merely playing with her food; she glanced at the window every few minutes; however, Bill returned efore they had finished their first course, his long hair tangled y the wind.
"Everythings fine," he told Fleur. "Ollivander settled in, Mum and Dad say hello. Ginny sends you all her love, Fred and George are driving Muriel up the wall, theyre still operating an Owl-Order usiness out of her ack room. It cheered her up to have her tiara ack, though. She said she thought wed stolen it."
"Ah, she eez charmant, your aunt," said Fleur crossly, waving her wand and causing the dirty plates to rise and form a stack in midair. She caught them and marched out of the room.
"Daddys made a tiara," piped up Luna, "Well, more of a crown, really."
Ron caught Harrys eye and grinned; Harry knew that he was rememering the ludicrous headdress they had seen on their visit to Xenophilius.
"Yes, hes trying to re-create the lost diadem of Ravenclaw. He thinks hes identified most of the main elements now. Adding the illywig wings really made a difference --"
There was a ang on the front door. Everyones head turned toward it. Fleur came running out of the kitchen, looking frightened; Bill jumped to his feed, his wand pointing
at the door; Harry, Ron, and Hermione did the same. Silently Griphook slipped eneath the tale, out of sight.
"Who is it?" Bill called.
"It is I, Remus John Lupin!" called a voice over the howling wind. Harry experienced a thrill of fear; what had happened? "I am a werewolf, married to Nymphadora Tonks, and you, the Secret-Keeper of Shell Cottage, told me the address and ade me come in an emergency!"
"Lupin," muttered Bill, and he ran to the door and wrenched it open.
Lupin fell over the threshold. He was white-faced, wrapped in a traveling cloak, his graying hair windswept. He straightened up, looked around the room, making sure of who was there, then cried aloud, "Its a oy! Weve named him Ted, after Doras father!"
Hermione shrieked.
"Wha --? Tonks -- Tonks has had the ay?"
"Yes, yes, shes had the ay!" shouted Lupin. All around the tale came cries of delight, sighs of relief: Hermione and Fleur oth squealed, "Congratulations!" and Ron said, "Blimey, a ay!" as if he had never heard of such a thing efore.
"Yes -- yes -- a oy," said Lupin again, who seemed dazed y his own happiness. He strode around the tale and hugged Harry; the scene in the asement of Grimmauld Place might never have happened.
"Youll e godfather?" he said as he released Harry.
"M-me?" stammered Harry.
"You, yes, of course -- Dora quite agrees, no one etter --"
"I -- yeah -- limey --"
Harry felt overwhelmed, astonished, delighted; now Bill was hurrying to fetch wine, and Fleur was persuading Lupin to join them for a drink.
"I cant stay long, I must get ack," said Lupin, eaming around at them all: He looked years younger than Harry had ever seen him. "Thank you, thank you, Bill"
Bill had soon filled all of their golets, they stood and raised them high in a toast.
"To Teddy Remus Lupin," said Lupin, "a great wizard in the making!"
"Oo does e look like?" Fleur inquired.
"I think he looks like Dora, ut she thinks he is like me. Not much hair. It looked lack when he was orn, ut I swear its turned ginger in the hour since. Proaly lond y the time I get ack. Andromeda says Tonkss hair started changing color the day that she was orn." He drained his golet. "Oh, go on then, just one more," he added, eaming, as Bill made to fill it again.
The wind uffeted the little cottage and the fire leapt and crackled, and Bill was soon opening another ottle of wine. Lupins news seemed to have taken them out of themselves, removed them for a while from their state of siege: Tidings of new life were exhilarating. Only the golin seemed untouched y the suddenly festive atmosphere, and after a while he slunk ack to the edroom he now occupied alone. Harry thought he was the only one who had noticed this, until he saw Bills eyes following the golin up the stairs.
"No... no... I really must get ack," said Lupin at last, declining yet another golet of wine. He got to his feet and pulled his traveling cloak ack around himself.
"Good-ye, good-ye -- Ill try and ring some pictures in a few days time -- theyll all e so glad to know that Ive seen you --"
He fastened his cloak and made his farewells, hugging the women and grasping hands with the men, then, still eaming, returned into the wild night.
"Godfather, Harry!" said Bill as they walked into the kitchen together, helping clear the tale. "A real honor! Congratulations!"
As Harry set down the empty golets he was carrying, Bill pulled the door ehind him closed, shutting out the still-volule voices of the others, who were continuing to celerate even in Lupins asence.
"I wanted a private word, actually, Harry. It hasnt een easy to get an opportunity with the cottage this full of people."
Bill hesitated.
"Harry, youre planning something with Griphook."
It was a statement, not a question, and Harry did not other to deny it. He merely looked at Bill, waiting.
"I know golins," said Bill. "Ive worked for Gringotts ever since I left Hogwarts. As far as there can e friendship etween wizards and golins, I have golin friends -- or, at least, golins I know well, and like." Again, Bill hesitated.
"Harry, what do you want from Griphook, and what have you promised him in return?"
"I cant tell you that," said Harry. "Sorry, Bill."
The kitchen door opened ehind them; Fleur was trying to ring through more empty golets.
"Wait," Bill told her, "Just a moment."
She acked out and he closed the door again.
"Then I have to say this," Bill went on. "If you have struck any kind of argain with Griphook, and most particularly if that argain involves treasure, you must e exceptionally careful. Golin notions of ownership, payment, and repayment are not the same as human ones."
Harry felt a slight squirm of discomfort, as though a small snake had stirred inside him.
"What do you mean?" he asked.
"We are talking aout a different reed of eing," said Bill. "Dealings etween wizards and golins have een fraught for centuries -- ut youll know all that from History of Magic. There has een fault on oth sides, I would never claim that wizards have een innocent. However, there is a elief among some golins, and those at Gringotts are perhaps most prone to it, that wizards cannot e trusted in matters of gold and treasure, that they have no respect for golin ownership."
"I respect --" Harry egan, ut Bill shook his head.
"You dont understand, Harry, noody could understand unless they have lived with golins. To a golin, the rightful and true master of any oject is the maker, not the purchaser. All golin made ojects are, in golin eyes, rightfully theirs."
"But it was ought --"
"-- then they would consider it rented y the one who had paid the money. They have, however, great difficulty with the idea of golin-made ojects passing from wizard to wizard. You saw Griphooks face when the tiara passed under his eyes. He disapproves. I elieve he thinks, as do the fiercest of his kind, that it ought to have een returned to the golins once the original purchaser died. They consider our hait of keeping golin-made ojects, passing them from wizard to wizard without further payment, little more than theft."
Harry had an ominous feeling now; he wondered whether Bill guessed more than he was letting on.
"All I am saying," said Bill, setting his hand on the door ack into the sitting room, "is to e very careful what you promise golins, Harry. It would e less dangerous to reak into Gringotts than to renege on a promise to a golin."
"Right," said Harry as Bill opened the door, "yeah. Thanks. Ill ear that in mind."
As he followed Bill ack to the others a wry thought came to him, orn no dout of the wine he had drunk. He seemed set on ______ to ecome just as reckless a godfather to Teddy Lupin as Sirius Black had een to him.
Chapter Twenty-Six
Gringotts
Their plans were made, their preparations complete; in the smallest edroom a single long, coarse lack hair (plucked from the sweater Hermione had een wearing at Malfoy Manor) lay curled in a small glass phial on the mantelpiece.
"And youll e using her actual wand," said Harry, nodding toward the walnut wand, "so I reckon youll e pretty convincing."
Hermione looked frightened that the wand might sting or it her as she picked it up.
"I hate that thing," she said in a low voice. "I really hate it. It feels all wrong, it doesnt work properly for me . . . Its like a it of her."
Harry could not help ut rememer how Hermione has dismissed his loathing of the lackthorn wand, insisting that he was imagining things when it did not work as well as his own, telling him to simply practice. He chose not to repeat her own advice ack to her, however, the eve of their attempted assault on Gringotts felt like the wrong moment to antagonize her.
"Itll proaly help you get in character, though," said Ron. "think what that wands done!"
"But thats my point!" said Hermione. "This is the wand that tortured Nevilles mum and dad, and who knows how many other people? This is the wand that killed Sirius!"
Harry had not thought of that: He looked down at the wand and was visited y a rutal urge to snap it, to slice it in half with Gryffindors sword, which was propped against the wall eside him.
"I miss my wand," Hermione said miseraly. "I wish Mr. Ollivander could have made me another one too."
Mr. Ollivander had sent Luna a new wand that morning. She was out on the ack lawn at that moment, testing its capailities in the late afternoon sun. Dean, who had lost his wand to the Snatchers, was watching rather gloomily.
Harry looked down at the hawthorn wand that had once elonged to Draco Malfoy. He had een surprised, ut pleased to discover that it worked for him at least as well as Hermiones had done. Rememering what Ollivander had told them of the secret
workings of wands, Harry thought he knew what Hermiones prolem was: She had not won the walnut wands allegiance y taking it personally from Bellatrix.
The door of the edroom opened and Griphook entered. Harry reached instinctively for the hilt of the sword and drew it close to him, ut regretted his action at once. He could tell that the golin had noticed. Seeking to gloss over the sticky moment, he said, "Weve just een checking the last-minute stuff, Griphook. Weve told Bill and Fleur were leaving tomorrow, and weve told them not to get up to see us off."
They had een firm on this point, ecause Hermione would need to transform in Bellatrix efore they left, and the less that Bill and Fleur knew or suspected aout what they were aout to do, the etter. They had also explained that they would not e returning. As they had lost Perkins old tent on the night that the Snatchers caught them, Bill had lent them another one. It was now packed inside the eaded ag, which, Harry was impressed to learn, Hermione had protected from the Snatchers y the simple expedient of stuffing it down her sock.
Though he would miss Bill, Fleur, Luna, and Dean, not to mention the home comforts they had enjoyed over the last few weeks, Harry was looking forward to escaping the confinement of Shell Cottage. He was tired of trying to make sure that they were not overheard, tired of eing shut in the tiny, dark edroom. Most of all, he longed to e rid of Griphook. However, precisely how and when they were to part from the golin without handing over Gryffindors sword remained a question to which Harry had no answer. It had een impossile to decide how they were going to do it, ecause the golin rarely left Harry, Ron, and Hermione alone together for more than five minutes at a time: "He could give my mother lessons," growled Ron, as the golins long fingers kept appearing around the edges of doors. With Bills warning in mind, Harry could not help suspecting that Griphook was on the watch for possile skullduggery. Hermione disapproved so heartily of the planned doule-cross that Harry had given up attempting to pick her rains on how est to do it: Ron, on the rare occasions that they had een ale to snatch a few Griphook-free moments, had come up with nothing etter than "Well just have to wing it, mate."
Harry slept adly that night. Lying away in the early hours, he thought ack to the way he had felt the night efore they had infiltrated the Ministry of Magic and rememered a determination, almost an excitement. Now he was experiencing jolts of anxiety nagging douts: He could not shake off the fear that it was all going to go wrong. He kept telling himself that their plan was good, that Griphook knew what they were facing, that they were well-prepared for all the difficulties they were likely to encounter, yet still he felt uneasy. Once or twice he heard Ron stir and was sure that he too was awake, ut they were sharing the sitting room with Dean, so Harry did not speak.
It was a relief when six o-clock arrived and they could slip out of their sleeping ags, dress in the semidarkness, then creep out into the garden, where they were to meet Hermione and Griphook. The dawn was chilly, ut there was little wind now that it was May. Harry looked up at the stars still glimmering palely in the dark sky and listened to the sea washing ackward and forward against the cliff: He was going to miss the sound.
Small green shoots were forcing their way up through the red earth of Doys grave now, in a years time the mound would e covered in flowers. The white stone that ore the elfs name had already acquired a weathered look. He realized now that they could hardly have laid Doy to rest in a more eautiful place, ut Harry ached with
sadness to think of leaving him ehind. Looking down on the grave, he wondered yet again how the elf had known where to come to rescue them. His fingers moved asentmindedly to the little pouch still strung around his neck, thorough which he could feel the jagged mirror fragment in which he had een sure he had seen Dumledores eye. Then the sound of a door opening made him look around.
Bellatrix Lestrange was striding across the lawn toward them, accompanied y Griphook. As she walked, she was tucking the small, eaded ag into the inside pocket of another set of the old roes they had taken from Grimmauld Place. Though Harry knew perfectly well that it was really Hermione, he could not suppress a shiver of loathing. She was taller than he was, her long lack hair rippling down her ack, her heavily lidded eyes disdainful as they rested upon him; ut then she spoke, and he heard Hermione through Bellatrixs low voice.
"She tasted disgusting, worse than Gurdyroots! Okay, Ron, come here so I can do you . . ."
"right, ut rememer, I dont like the eard too long"
"Oh, for heavens sake, this isnt aout looking handsome"
"Its not that, it gets in the way! But I liked my nose a it shorter, try and do it the way you did last time."
Hermione sighed and set to work, muttering under her reath as she transformed various aspects of Rons appearance. He was to e given a completely fake identity, and they were trusting to the malevolent aura cast y Bellatrix to protect him. Meanwhile Harry and Griphook were to e concealed under the Invisiility Cloak.
"There," said Hermione, "how does he look, Harry?"
It was just not possile to discern Ron under his disguise, ut only, Harry thought ecause he knew him so well. Rons hair was now long and wavy; he had a thick rown eard and mustache, no freckles, a short, road nose, and heavy eyerows.
"Well, hes not my type, ut hell do," said Harry. "Shall we go, then?"
All three of them glanced ack at Shell Cottage, lying dark and silent under the fading stars, then turned and egan to walk toward the point, just eyond the oundary wall, where the Fidelius Chard stopped working and they would e ale to Disapparate. Once past the gate, Griphook spoke.
"I should clim up now, Harry Potter, I think?"
Harry ent down and the golin clamered onto his ack, his hands linked on front of Harrys throat. He was not heavy, ut Harry disliked the feeling of the golin and the surprising strength with which he clung on. Hermione pulled the Invisiility Cloak out of the eaded ag and threw it over them oth.
"Perfect," she said, ending down to check Harrys feet. "I cant see a thing. Lets go."
Harry turned on the spot, with Griphook on his shoulders, concentrating with all his might on the Leaky Cauldron, the inn that was the entrance to Diagon Alley. The golin clung even tighter as they moved into the compressing darkness, and seconds later Harrys feet found pavement and he opened his eyes on Charing Cross Road. Muggles ustled past wearing the hangdog expressions of early morning, quite unconscious of the little inns existence.
The ar of the Leaky Cauldron was nearly deserted. Ton, the stooped and toothless landlord, was polishing glasses ehind the ar counter; a couple of warlocks
having a muttered conversation in the far corner glanced at Hermione and drew ack into the shadows.
"Madam Lestrange," murmured Tom, and as Hermione paused he inclined his head suserviently.
"Good morning," said Hermione, and as Harry crept past, still carrying Griphook piggyack under the Cloak, he saw Tom look surprised.
"Too polite," Harry whispered in Hermiones ear as they passed out of the Inn into the tiny ackyard. "You need to treat people like theyre scum!"
"Okay, okay!"
Hermione drew out Bellatrixs wand and rapped a rick in the nondescript wall in front of them. At once the ricks egan to whirl and spin: A hole appeared in the middle of them, which grew wider and wider, finally forming an archway onto the narrow coled street that was Diagon Alley.
It was quiet, arely time for the shops to open, and there were hardly and shoppers aroad. The crooked, coled street was much altered now from the ustling place Harry had visited efore his first team at Hogwarts so many years efore. More shops than ever were oarded up, though several new estalishments dedicated to the Dark Arts had een created since his last visit. Harrys own face glared down at him from posters plastered over many windows, always captioned with the words UNDESIRABLE NUMBER ONE.
A numer of ragged people sat huddled in doorways. He heard them moaning to the few passersy, pleading for gold, insisting that they were really wizards. One man had a loody andage over his eye.
As they set off along the street, the eggars glimpsed Hermione. they seemed to melt away efore her, drawing hoods over their faces and fleeing as fast as they could. Hermione looked after them curiously, until the man with the loodied andage came staggering right across her path.
"My children," he ellowed, pointing at her. His voice was cracked, high-pitched, he sounded distraught. "Where are my children? What has he done with them? You know, you know!"
"I--I really--" stammered Hermione.
The man lunged at her, reaching for her throat. Then, with a ang and a urst of red light he was thrown ackward onto the ground, unconscious. Ron stood there, his wand still outstretched and a look of shock visile ehind his eard. Faces appeared at the windows on either side of the street, while a little knot of prosperous-looking passery gathered their roes aout them and roke into gentle trots, keen to vacate the scene.
their entrance into Diagon Alley could hardly have een more conspicuous; for a moment Harry wondered whether it might not e etter to leave now and try to think of a different plan. Before they could move or consult one another, however, they heard a cry from ehind them.
"Why, Madam Lestrange!"
Harry whirled around and Griphook tightened his hold around Harrys neck: A tall, think wizard with a crown of ushy gray hair and a long, sharp nose was striding toward them.
"Its Travers," hissed the golin into Harrys ear, ut at that moment Harry could not think who Travers was. Hermione had drawn herself up to full height and said with as much contempt as she could muster:
"And what do you want?"
Travers stopped in his tracks, clearly affronted.
"Hes another Death Eater!" reathed Griphook, and Harry sidled sideways to repeat the information into Hermiones ear.
"I merely sought to greet you," said Travers coolly, "ut if my presence is not welcome . . ."
Harry recognized his voice now: Travers was one of the Death Eaters who had een summoned to Xenophilius’s house.
"No, no, not at all, Travers," said Hermione quickly, trying to cover up her mistake. "How are you?"
"Well, I confess I am surprised to see you out and aout, Bellatrix."
"Really? Why?" asked Hermione.
"Well," Travers coughed, "I heard that the Inhaitants of Malfoy Manor were confined to the house, after the . . . ah . . . escape."
Harry willed Hermione to keep her head. If this was true, and Bellatrix was not supposed to e out in pulic--
"The Dark Lord forgives those who have served him most faithfully in the past," said Hermione in a magnificent imitation of Bellatrixs most contemptuous manner. "Perhaps your credit is not as good with him as mine is, Travers."
Though the Death Eater looked offended, he also seemed less suspicious. He glanced down at the man Ron had just Stunned.
"How did it offend you?"
"It does not matter, it will not do so again," said Hermione coolly.
"Some of these wandless can e troulesome," said Travers. "While they do nothing ut eg I have no ojection, ut one of them actually asked me to plead her case in the Ministry last week. Im a witch, sir, Im a witch, let me prove it to you!" he said in a squeaky impersonation. "As if I was going to give her my wand--ut whose wand," said Travers curiously, "are you using at the moment, Bellatrix? I heard that your own was--"
"I have my wand here," said Hermione coldly, holding up Bellatrixs wand. "I dont know what rumors you have een listening to, Travers, ut you seem sadly misinformed."
Travers seemed a little taken aack at that, and he turned instead to Ron.
"Who is your friend? I do not recognize him."
"This is Dragomir Despard," said Hermione; they had decided that a fictional foreigner was the safest cover for Ron to assume. "He speaks very little English, ut he is in sympathy with the Dark Lords aims. He has traveled here from Transylvania to see our new regime."
"Indeed? How do you do, Dragomir?"
"Ow you?" said Ron, holding out his hand.
Travers extended two fingers and shook Rons hand as though frightened of dirtying himself.
So what rings you and your--ah--sympathetic friend to Diagon Alley this early?" asked Travers.
"I need to visit Gringotts," said Hermione.
"Alas, I also," said Travers. "Gold, filthy gold! We cannot live without it, yet I confess I deplore the necessity of consorting with our long-fingered friends."
Harry felt Griphooks clasped hands tighten momentarily around his neck.
"Shall we?" said Travers, gesturing Hermione forward.
Hermione had no choice ut to fall into step eside him and head along the crooked, coled street toward the place where the snowy-white Gringotts stood towering over the other little shops. Ron sloped along eside them, and Harry and Griphook followed.
A watchful Death Eater was the very last thing they needed, and the worst of it was, with Travers matching at what he elieved to e Bellatrixs side, there was no means for Harry to communicate with Hermione or Ron. All too soon they arrived at the foot of the marle steps leading up to the great ronze doors. As Griphook had already warned them, the liveried golins who usually flanked the entrance had een replaced y two wizards, oth of whom were clutching long thin golden rods.
"Ah, Proity Proes," signed Travers theatrically, "so crude--ut so effective!"
And he set off up the steps, nodding left and right to the wizards, who raised the golden rods and passed them up and down his ody. The Proes, Harry knew, detected spells of concealment and hidden magical ojects. Knowing that he had only seconds, Harry pointed Dracos wand at each of the guards in turn and murmured, "Confundo" twice. Unnoticed y Travers, who was looking through the ronze doors at the inner hall, each of the guards gave a little start as the spells hit them.
Hermiones long lack hair rippled ehind her as she climed the steps.
"One moment, madam," said the guard, raising his Proe.
"But youve just done that!" said Hermione in Bellatrixs commanding, arrogant voice. Travers looked around, eyerows raised. The guard was confused. He stared down at the thin golden Proe and then at his companion, who said in a slightly dazed voice,
"Yeah, youve just checked them, Marius."
Hermione swept forward. Ron y her side, Harry and Griphook trotting invisily ehind them. Harry glanced ack as they crossed the threshold. The wizards were oth scratching their heads.
Two golins stood efore the inner doors, which were made of silver and which carried the poem warning of dire retriution to potential thieves. Harry looked up at it, and all of a sudden a knife-sharp memory came to him: standing on this very spot on the day that he had turned eleven, the most wonderful irthday of his life, and Hagrid standing eside him saying, "Like I said, yehd e mad ter try an ro it." Gringotts had seemed a place of wonder that day, the enchanted repository of a trove of gold he had never known he possessed, and never for an instant could he have dreamed that he would return to steal . . . But within seconds they were standing in the vast marle hall of the ank.
The long counter was manned y golins sitting on high stools serving the first customers of the day. Hermione, Ron, and Travers headed toward an old golin who was examining a thick gold coin through an eyeglass. Hermione allowed Travers to step ahead of her on the pretext of explaining features of the hall to Ron.
The golin tossed the coin he was holding aside, said to noody in particular, "Leprechaun," and then greeted Travers, who passed over a tiny golden key, which was examined and given ack to him.
Hermione stepped forward.
"Madam Lestrange!" said the golin, evidently startled. "Dear me!" How--how may I help you today?"
"I wish to enter my vault," said Hermione.
The old golin seemed to recoil a little. Harry glanced around. Not only was Travers hanging ack, watching, ut several other golins had looked up from their work to stare at Hermione.
"You have . . . identification?" asked the golin.
"Identification? I--I have never een asked for identification efore!" said Hermione.
"They know!" whispered Griphook in Harrys ear, "They must have een warned there might e an imposter!"
"Your wand will do, madam," said the golin. He held out a slightly tremling hand, and in a dreadful last of realization Harry knew that the golins of Gringotts were aware that Bellatrixs wand had een stolen.
"Act now, act now," whispered Griphook in Harrys ear, "the Imperious Curse!"
Harry raised the hawthorn wand eneath the cloak, pointed it at the old golin, and whispered, for the first time in his life, "Imperio!"
A curious sensation shot down Harrys arm, a feeling of tingling, warmth that seemed to flow from his mind, down the sinews and veins connecting him to the wand and the curse it had just cast. The golin took Bellatrixs wand, examined it closely, and then said, "Ah, you have had a new wand made, Madam Lestrange!"
"What?" said Hermione, "No, no, thats mine--"
"A new wand?" said Travers, approaching the counter again; still the golins all around were watching. "But how could you have done, which wandmaker did you use?"
Harry acted without thinking. Pointing his wand at Travers, he muttered, "Imperio!" once more.
"Oh yes, I see," said Travers, looking down at Bellatrixs wand, "yes, very handsome. and is it working well? I always think wands require a little reaking in, dont you?"
Hermione looked utterly ewildered, ut to Harrys enormous relief she accepted the izarre turn of events without comment.
The old golin ehind the counter clapped his hands and a younger golin approached.
"I shall need the Clankers," he told the golin, who dashed away and returned a moment later with a leather ag that seemed to e full of jangling metal, which he handed to his senior. "Good, good! S, if you will follow me, Madam Lestrange," said the old golin, hopping down off his stool and vanishing from sight. "I shall take you to your vault."
He appeared around the end of the counter, jogging happily toward them, the contents of the leather ag still jingling. Travers was now standing quite still with his mouth hanging wide open. Ron was drawing attention to this odd phenomenon y regarding Travers with confusion.
"Wait - Bogrod!"
Another golin came scurrying around the counter.
"We have instructions," he said with a ow to Hermione. "Forgive me, Madam, ut there have een special orders regarding the vault of Lestrange."
He whispered urgently in Bogrod’s ear, ut the Imperiused golin shook him off.
"I am aware of the instructions, Madam Lestrange wishes to visit her vault ... Very old family ... old clients ... This way, please ... "
And, still clanking, he hurried toward one of the many doors leading off the hall. Harry looked ack at Travers , who was still rooted to the spot looking anormally vacant, and made his decision. With a flick of his wand he made Travers come with them, walking meekly in their wake as they reached the door and passed into the rough stone passageway eyond, which was lit with flaming torches.
"We’re in troule; they suspect," said Harry as the door slammed ehind them and he pulled off the Invisiility Cloak. Griphook jumped down from his shoulders: neither Travers nor Bogrod showed the slightest surprise at the sudden appearance of Harry Potter in their midst. "They’re Imperiused," he added, in response to Hermione and Ron’s confused queries aout Travers and Bogrod, who were oth now standing there looking lank. "I don’t think I did it strongly enough, I don’t know ..."
And another memory darted through his mind, of the real Bellatrix Lestrange shrieking at him when he had first tried to use an Unforgivale Curse: "You need to mean them, Potter!"
"What do we do?" asked Ron. "Shall we get out now, while we can?"
"If we can," said Hermione, looking ack toward the door into the main hall, eyond which who knew what was happening.
"We’ve got this far, I say we go on," said Harry.
"Good!" said Griphook. "So, we need Bogrod to control the cart; I no long have the authority. But there will not e room for the wizard."
Harry pointed his wand at Travers.
"Imperio!"
The wizard turned and set off along the dark track at a smart pace.
"What are you making him do?"
"Hide," said Harry as he pointed his wand at Bogrod, who whistled to summon a little cart that came trundling along the tracks toward them out of the darkness. Harry was sure he could hear shouting ehind them in the main hall as they all clamered into it, Bogrod in front of Griphook, Harry, Ron, and Hermione crammed together in the ack.
With a jerk the cart moved off, gathering speed: They hurried past Travers, who was wriggling into a crack in the wall, then the cart egan twisting and turning through the layrinthine passages, sloping downward all the time. Harry could not hear anything over the rattling of the cart on the tracks: His hair flew ehind him as they swerved etween stalactites, flying ever deeper into the earth, ut he kept glancing ack. They might as well have left enormous footprints ehind them; the more he thought aout it, the more foolish it seemed to have disguised Hermione as Bellatrix, to have rought along Bellatrix’s wand, when the Death Eaters knew who had stolen it -
There were a deeper than Harry had ever penetrated within Gringotts; they took a hairpin end at speed and saw ahead of them, with seconds to spare, a waterfall pounding over the track. Harry heard Griphook shout, "No!" ut there was no raking. They
zoomed through it. Water filled Harry’s eyes and mouth: He could not see or reathe: Then, with an awful lurch, the cart flipped over and they were all thrown out of it. Harry heard the cart smash into pieces against the passage wall, heard Hermione shriek something, and felt himself glide ack toward the ground as though weightless, landing painlessly on the rocky passage floor.
"C-Cushioning Charm," Hermione spluttered, as Ron pulled her to her feet, ut to Harry’s horror he saw that she was no longer Bellatrix; instead she stood there in overlarge roes, sopping wet and completely herself; Ron was red-haired and eardless again. They were realizing it as they looked at each other, feeling their own faces.
"The Thief’s Downfall!" said Griphook, clamering to his feet and looking ack the deluge onto the tracks, which, Harry knew now, had een more than water. "It washes away all enchantment, all magical concealment! They know there are imposers in Gringotts, they have set off defenses against us!"
Harry saw Hermione checking that she still had the eaded ag, and hurriedly thrust his own hand under his jacket to make sure he had not lost the Invisiility Cloak. Then he turned to see Bogrod shaking his head in ewilderment: The Thief’s Downfall seemed to have lifted his Imperius Curse.
"We need him," said Griphook, "we cannot enter the vault without a Gringott’s golin. And we need the clankers!"
"Imperio!" Harry said again; his voice echoed through the stone passage as he felt again the sense of heady control that flowed from rain to wand. Bogrod sumitted once more to his will, his efuddled expression changing to one of polite indifference, as Ron hurried to pick up the leather ag of metal tools.
"Harry, I think I can hear people coming!" said Hermione, and she pointed Bellatrix’s wand at the waterfall and cried, "Protego!" They saw the Shield Charm reak the flow of enchanted water as it flew up the passageway.
"Good thinking," said Harry. "Lead the way, Griphook!"
"How are we going to get out again?" Ron asked as they hurried on foot into the darkness after the golin, Bogrod panting in their wake like an old dog.
"Let’s worry aout that when we have to," said Harry. He was trying to listen: He thought he could hear something clanking and moving around neary. "Griphook, how much farther?"
"Not far, Harry Potter, not far ... "
And they turned a corner and saw the thing for which Harry had een prepared, ut which still rought all of them to a halt.
A gigantic dragon was tethered to the ground in front of them, arring access to four or five of the deepest vaults in the place. The east’s scales had turned pale and flaky during its long incarceration under the ground, its eyes were milkily pink; oth rear legs ore heavy cuffs from which chains led to enormous pegs driven deep into the rocky floor. Its great spiked wings, folded close to its ody, would have filled the chamer if it spread them, and when it turned its ugly head toward them, it roared with a noise that made the rock tremle, opened its mouth, and spat a jet of fire that sent them running ack up the passageway.
"It is partially lind," panted Griphook, "ut even more savage for that. However, we have the means to control it. It has learned what to expect when the Clankers come. Give them to me."
Ron passed the ag to Griphook, and the golin pulled out a numer of small metal instruments that when shaken made a long ringing noise like miniature hammers on anvils. Griphook handed them out: Bogrod accepted his meekly.
"You know what to do," Griphook told Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "It will expect pain when it hears the noise. It will retreat, and Bogrod must place his palm upon the door of the vault."
They advanced around the corner again, shaking the Clankers, and the noise echoed off the rocky walls, grossly magnified, so that the inside of Harry’s skull seemed to virate with the den. The dragon let out another hoarse roar, then retreated. Harry could see it tremling, and as they drew nearer he saw the scars made y vicious slashes across its face, and guess that it had een taught to fear hot swords when it heard the sound of the Clankers.
"Make him press his hand to the door!" Griphook urged Harry, who turned his wand again upon Bogrod. The old golin oeyed, pressing his palm to the wood, and the door of the vault melted away to reveal a cavelike opening crammed from floor to ceiling with golden coins and golets, silver armor, the skins of strange creatures - some with long spines, other with drooping wings - potions in jeweled flasks, and a skull still wearing a crown. "Search, fast!" said Harry as they all hurried inside the vault. He had descried Hufflepuff’s cap to Ron and Hermione, ut if it was the other, unknown Horcrux that resided in this vault, he did not know what it looked like. He arely had time to glance around, however, efore there was a muffled clunk from ehind them: The door had reappeared, sealing them inside the vault, and they were plunged into total darkness.
"No matter, Bogrod will e ale to release us!" said Griphook as Ron gave a shout of surprise. "Light your wands, can’t you? And hurry, we have little time!"
"Lumos!"
Harry shone his lit wand around the vault: Its eam fell upon glittering jewels; he saw the fake sword of Gryffindor lying on a high shelf amongst a jumle of chains. Ron and Hermione had lit their wands too, and were now examining the piles of ojects surrounding them.
"Harry, could this e -- ? Aargh!"
Hermione screamed in pain, and Harry turned his wand on her in time to see a jeweled golet tumling from her grip. But as it fell, it split, ecame a shower of golets, so that a second later, with a great clatter, the floor was covered in identical cups rolling in every direction, the original impossile to discern amongst them.
"It urned me!" moaned Hermione, sucking her listered fingers.
"They have added Germino and Flagrante Curses!" said Griphook.
"Everything you touch will urn and multiply, ut the copies are worthless - and if you continue to handle the treasure, you will eventually e crushed to death y the weight of expanding gold!"
"Okay, don’t touch anything!" said Harry desperately, ut even as he said it, Ron accidentally nudged one of the fallen golets with his foot, and twenty more exploded into eing while Ron hopped on the spot, part of his shoe urned away y contact with the hot metal.
"Stand still, don’t move!" said Hermione, clutching at Ron.
"Just look around!" said Harry. "Rememer, the cup’s small and gold, it’s got a adger engraved on it, two handles - otherwise see if you can spot Ravenclaw’s symol anywhere, the eagle -"
They directed their wands into every nook and crevice, turning cautiously on the spot. It was impossile not to rush up against anything; Harry sent a great cascade of fake Galleons onto the ground where they joined the golets, and now there was scarcely room to place their feet, and the glowing gold lazed with heat, so that the vault felt like a furnace. Harry’s wandlight passed over shields and golin-made helmets set on shelves rising to the ceiling; higher and higher he raised the eam, until suddenly it found an oject that made his heart skip and his hand tremle.
"It’s there, it’s up there!"
Ron and Hermione pointed there wands at it too, so that the little golden cup sparkled in a three-way spotlight: the cup that had elonged to Helga Hufflepuff, which had passed into the possession of Hepziah Smith, from whom it had een stolen y Tom Riddle.
"And how the hell are we going to get up there without touching anything?" asked Ron.
"Accio Cup!" cried Hermione, who had evidently forgotten in her desperation what Griphook had told them during their planning sessions.
"No use, no use!" snarled the golin.
"Then what do we do?" said Harry, glaring at the golin. "If you want the sword, Griphook, then you’ll have to help us more than - wait! Can I touch stuff with the sword? Hermione, give it here!"
Hermione fumled insider her roes, drew out a eaded ag, rummaged for a few seconds, then removed the shining sword. Harry seized it y its ruied hilt and touched the tip of the lade to a silver flagon neary, which did not multiply.
"If I can just poke the sword through a handle - ut how am I going to get up there?"
The shelf on which the cup reposed was out of reach for any of them, even Ron, who was tallest. The heat from the enchanted treasure rose in waves, and sweat ran down Harry’s face and ack as he struggled to think of a way up to the cup; and then he heard the dragon roar on the other side of the vault door, and the sound of clanking growing louder and louder.
They were truly trapped now: There was no way out except through the door, and a horde of golins seemed to e approaching on the other side. Harry looked at Ron and Hermione and saw terror in their faces.
"Hermione," said Harry, as the clanking grew louder, "I’ve got to get up there, we’ve got to get rid of it -"
She raised her wand, pointed it at Harry, and whispered, "Levicorpus."
Hoisted into the air y his ankle, Harry hit a suit of armor and replicas urst out of it like white-hot odies, filling the cramped space. With screams of pain, Ron, Hermione, and the two golins were knocked aside into other ojects, which also egan to replicate. Half uried in a rising tide of red-hot treasure, they struggled and yelled has Harry thrust the sword through the handle of Hufflepuff’s cup, hooking it onto the lade.
"Impervius!" screeched Hermione in an attempt to protect herself, Ron, and the golins from the urning metal.
Then the worst scream yet made Harry look down: Ron and Hermione were waist deep in treasure, struggling to keep Bogrod from slipping eneath the rising tide, ut Griphook had sunk out of sight; and nothing ut the tips of a few long fingers were left in view.
Harry seized Griphook’s fingers and pulled. The listered golin emerged y degrees, howling.
"Lieratocorpus!" yelled Harry, and with a crash he and Griphook landed on the surface of the swelling treasure, and the sword flew out of Harry’s hand.
"Get it!" Harry yelled, fighting the pain of the hot metal on his skin, as Griphook clamered onto his shoulders again, determined to avoid the swelling mass of red-hot ojects. "Where’s the sword? It had the cup on it!"
The clanking on the other side of the door was growing deafening - it was too late -
"There!"
It was Griphook who had seen it and Griphook who lunged, and in that instant Harry knew that the golin had never expected them to keep their word. One hand holding tightly to a fistful of Harry’s hair, to make sure he did not fall into the heaving sea of urning gold, Griphook seized the hilt of the sword and swung it high out of Harry’s reach. The tiny golden cup, skewered y the handle on the sword’s lade was flung into the air. The golin astride him, Harry dived and caught it, and although he could feel it scalding his flesh he did not relinquish it, even while countless Hufflepuff cups urst from his fist, raining down upon him as the entrance of the vault opened up again and he found himself sliding uncontrollaly on an expanding avalanche of fiery gold and silver that ore him, Ron, Hermione into the outer chamer.
Hardly aware of the pain from the urns covering his ody, and still orne along the swell of replicating treasure, Harry shoved the cup into his pocket and reached up to retrieve the sword, ut Griphook was gone. Sliding from Harry’s shoulders the moment he could, he had sprinted for cover amongst the surrounding golins, randishing the sword and crying, "Thieves! Thieves! Help! Thieves!" He vanished into the midst of the advancing crowd, all of whom were holding daggers and who accepted him without question.
Slipping on the hot metal, Harry struggled to his feet and knew that the only way out was through.
"Stupefy!" he ellowed, and Ron and Hermione joined in: Jets of red light flew into the crowd of golins, and some toppled over, ut others advanced, and Harry saw several wizard guards running around the corner.
The tethered dragon let out a roar, and a gush of flame flew over the golins; The wizards fled, douled-up, ack the way they had come, and inspiration, or madness, came to Harry. Pointing his wand at the thick cuffs chaining the east to the floor, he yelled, "Relashio!"
The cuffs roken open with loud angs.
"This way!" Harry yelled, and still shooting Stunning Spells at the advancing golins, he sprinted toward the lind dragon.
"Harry - Harry - what are you doing?" cried Hermione.
"Get up, clim up, come on -"
The dragon had not realized that it was free: Harry’s foot found the crook of its hind leg and he pulled himself up onto its ack. The scales were hard as steel; it did not even seem to feel him. He stretched out an arm; Hermione hoisted herself up; Ron climed on ehind them, and a second later the dragon ecame aware that it was untethered.
With a roar it reared: Harry dug in his knees, clutching as tightly as he could to the jagged scales as the wings opened, knocking the shrieking golins aside like skittles, and it soared into the air. Harry, Ron, and Hermione, flat on its ack, scraped against the ceiling as it dived toward the passage opening, while the pursuing golins hurled daggers that glanced off its flanks.
"We’ll never get out, it’s too ig!" Hermione screamed, ut the dragon opened its mouth and elched flame again, lasting the tunnel, whose floors and ceiling cracked and crumled. By sheer force, the dragon clawed and fought its way through. Harry’s eyes were shut tight against the heat and dust: Deafened y the crash of rock and the dragon’s roars, he could only cling to its ack, expecting to e shaken off at any moment; then he heard Hermione yelling, "Defodio!"
She was helping the dragon enlarge the passageway, carving out the ceiling as it struggled upward toward the fresher air, away from the shrieking and clanking golins: Harry and Ron copied her, lasting the ceiling apart with more gouging spells. They passed the underground lake, and the great crawling, snarling east seemed to sense freedom and space ahead of it, and ehind them the passage was full of the dragon’s thrashing, spiked tail, of great lumps of rock, gigantic fractured stalactites, and the clanking of the golins seemed to e growing more muffled, while ahead, the dragon’s fire kept their progress clear -
And then at last, y the comined force of their spells and the dragon’s rute strength, they had lasted their way out of the passage into the marle hallway. Golins and wizards shrieked and ran for cover, and finally the dragon had room to stretch its wings: Turning its horned head toward the cool outside air it could smell eyond the entrance, it took off, and with Harry, Ron, and Hermione still clinging to its ack, it forced its way through the metal doors, leaving them uckled and hanging from their hinges, as it staggered into Diagon Alley and launched itself into the sky.
Chapter Twenty-Seven
The Final Hiding Place
There was no means of steering; the dragon could not see where it was going, and Harry knew that if it turned sharply or rolled in midair they would find it impossile to cling onto its road ack. Nevertheless, as they climed higher and higher, London unfurling elow them like a gray-and-green map, Harrys overwhelming feeling was of gratitude for an escape that had seemed impossile. Crouching low over the easts neck, he clung tight to
the metallic scales, and the cool reeze was soothing on his urned and listered skin, the dragons wings eating the air like the sails of a windmill. Behind him, whether from delight or fear he could not tell. Ron kept swearing at the top of his voice, and Hermione seemed to e soing. After five minutes or so, Harry lost some of his immediate dread that the dragon was going to throw them off, for it seemed intent on nothing ut getting as far away from its underground prison as possile; ut the question of how and when they were to dismount remained rather frightening. He had no idea how long dragons could fly without landing, nor how this particular dragon, which could arely see, would locate a good place to put down. He glanced around constantly, imagining that he could feel his seat prickling. How long would it e efore Voldemort knew that they had roken into the Lestranges vault? How soon would the golins of Gringotts notify Bellatrix? How quickly would they realize what had een taken? And then, when they discovered that the golden cup was missing? Voldemort would know, at last, that they were hunting Horcruxes. The dragon seemed to crave cooler and fresher air. It climed steadily until they were flying through wisps of chilly cloud, and Harry could no longer make out the little colored dots which were cars pouring in and out of the capital. On and on they flew, over countryside parceled out in patches of green and rown, over roads and rivers winding through the landscape like strips of matte and glossy rion. "What do you reckon its looking for?" Ron yelled as they flew farther and farther north. "No idea," Harry ellow ack. His hands were num with cold ut he did not date attempt to shift his grip. He had een wondering for some time what they would do if they saw the coast sail eneath them, if the dragon headed for open seal he was cold and num, not to mention desperately hungry and thirsty. When, he wondered, had the east itself last eaten? Surely it would need sustenance efore long? And what if, at that point, it realized it had three highly edile humans sitting on its ack? The sun slipped lower in the sky, which was turning indigo; and still the dragon flew, cities and towns gliding out of sight eneath them, its enormous shadow sliding over the earth like a giant dark cloud. Every part of Harry ached with the effort of holding on to the dragons ack. "Is it my imagination," shouted Ron after a considerale stretch of silence, "or are we losing height?" Harry looked down and saw deep green mountains and lakes, coppery in the sunset. the landscape seemed to grow larger and more detailed as he squinted over the side of the dragon, and he wondered whether it had divined the presence of fresh water y the flashes of reflected sunlight. Lower and lower the dragon flew, in great spiraling circles, honing in, it seemed, upon one of the smaller lakes. "I say we jump when it gets low enough!" Harry called ack to the others. "Straight into the water efore it realizes were here!"
They agreed, Hermione a little faintly, and now Harry could see the dragons wide yellow underelly rippling in the surface of the water. "NOW!" He slithered over the side of the dragon and plummeted feetfirst toward the surface of the lake; the drop was greater than he had estimated and he hit the water hard, plunging like a stone into a freezing, green, reed-filled world. He kicked toward the surface and emerged, panting, to see enormous ripples emanating in circles from the places where Ron and Hermione had fallen. The dragon did not seem to have noticed anything; it was already fifty feet away, swooping low over the lake to scoop up water in its scarred snout. As Ron and Hermione emerged, spluttering and gasping, from the depths of the lake, the dragon flew on, its wings eating hard, and landed at last on a distant ank. Harry, Ron and Hermione struck out for the opposite shore. The lake did not seem to e deep. Soon it was more a question of fighting their way through reeds and mud than swimming, and at last they flopped, sodden, panting, and exhausted, onto slippery grass. Hermione collapsed, coughing and shuddering. Though Harry could have happily lain down and slept, he staggered to his feet, drew out his wand, and started casting the usual protective spells around them. When he had finished, he joined the others. It was the first time that he had seen them properly since escaping from the vault. Both had angry red urns all over their faces and arms, and their clothing was singed away in places. They were wincing as they daed essence of dittany onto their many injuries. Hermione handed Harry the ottle, then pulled out three ottles of pumpkin juice she had rought from Shell Cottage and clean, dry roes for all of them. They changes and then gulped down the juice. "Well, on the upside," said Ron finally, who was sitting watching the skin on his hands regrow, "we got the Horcrux. On the downside-" "-- no sword," said Harry through gritted teeth, as he dripped dittany through the singed hole in his jeans onto the angry urn eneath. "No sword," repeated Ron. "That doule-crossing little sca..." Harry pulled the Horcrux from the pocket of the wet jacket he had just taken off and set it down on the grass in front of them. Glinting in the sun, it drew their eyes as they swigged their ottles of juice. "At least we cant wear it this time, thatd look a it weird hanging around our necks," said Ron, wiping his mouth on the ack of his hand. Hermione looked across the lake to the far ank where the dragon was still drinking. "Whatll happen to it, do you think?" she asked, "Will it e alright?" "You sound like Hagrid," said Ron, "Its a dragon, Hermione, it can look after itself. Its us we need to worry aout." "What do you mean?" "Well I dont know how to reak this to you," said Ron, "ut I think they might have noticed we roke into Gringotts." All three of them started to laugh, and once started, it was difficult
to stop. Harrys ris ached, he felt lightheaded with hunger, ut he lay ack on the grass eneath the reddening sky and laughed until his throat was raw. "What are we going to do, though?" said Hermione finally, hiccuping herself ack to seriousness. "Hell know, wont he? You-Know-Who will know we know aout his Horcruxes!" "Maye theyll e too scared to tell him!" said Ron hopefully, "Maye theyll cover up --" The sky, the smell of the lake water, the sound of Rons voice were extinguished. Pain cleaved Harrys head like a sword stroke. He was standing in a dimly lit room, and a semicircle of wizards faced him, and on the floor at his feet knelt a small, quaking figure. "What did you say to me?" His voice was high and cold, ut fury and fear urned inside him. The one thing that he had dreaded - ut it could not e true, he could not see how... The golin was tremling, unale to meet the red eyes high aove his. "Say it again!" murmured Voldemort. "Say it again!" "M-my Lord," stammered the golin, its lack eyes wide with terror, "m-my Lord... we t-tried to st-stop them... Im-impostors, my Lord... roke - roke into the - into the Lestranges vault..." "Impostors? What impostors? I thought Gringotts had ways of revealing impostors? Who were they? "It was... it was... the P-Potter -oy and the t-two accomplices..." "And they took?" he said, his voice rising, a terrile fear gripping him, "Tell me! What did they take?" "A... a s-small golden c-cup m-my Lord..." The scream of rage, of denial left him as if it were a strangers. He was crazed, frenzied, it could not e true, it was impossile, noody had known. How was it possile that the oy could have discovered his secret? The Elder Wand slashed through the air and green light erupted through the room; the kneeling golin rolled over dead; the watching wizards scattered efore him, terrified. Bellatrix and Lucius Malfoy threw others ehind them in their race for the door, and again and again his wand fell, and those who were left were slain, all of them, for ringing him this news, for hearing aout the golden cup - Alone amongst the dead he stomped up and down, and they passed efore him in vision: his treasures, his safeguards, his anchors to immortality - the diary was destroyed and the cup was stolen. What if, what if, the oy knew aout the others? Could he know, had he already acted, had he traced more of them? Was Dumledore at the root of this? Dumledore, who had always suspected him; Dumledore, dead on his orders; Dumledore, whose wand was his now, yet who reached out from the ignominy of death through the oy, the oy - But surely if the oy had destroyed any of his Horcruxes, he, Lord Voldemort, would have known, would have felt it? He, the greatest wizard of them all; he, the most powerful; he, the killer of Dumledore and of how
many other worthless, nameless men. How could Lord Voldemort not have known, if he, himself, most important and precious, had een attacked, mutilated? True, he had not felt it when the diary had een destroyed, ut he had thought that was ecause he had no ody to fell, eing less than ghost... No, surely, the rest were safe... The other Horcruxes must e intact... But he must know, he must e sure... He paced the room, kicking aside the golins corpse as he passed, and the pictures lurred and urned in his oiling rain: the lake, the shack, and Hogwarts - A modicum of calm cooled his rage now. How could the oy know that he had hidden the ring in the Gaunt shack? No one had ever known him to e related to the Gaunts, he had hidden the connection, the killings had never een traced to him. The ring, surely, was safe. And how could the oy, or anyody else, know aout the cave or penetrate its protection? The idea of the locket eing stolen was asurd... As for the school: He alone knew where in Hogwarts he had stowed the Horcrux, ecause he alone had plumed the deepest secrets of that place... And there was still Nagini, who must remain close now, no longer sent to do his idding, under his protection... But to e sure, to e utterly sure, he must return to each of his hiding places, he must redoule protection around each of his Horcruxes... A jo, like the quest for the Elder Wand, that he must undertake alone... Which should he visit first, which was in most danger? An old unease flickered inside him. Dumledore had known his middle name... Dumledore might have made the connection with the Gaunts... Their aandoned home was, perhaps, the least secure of his hiding places, it was there that he would go first... The lake, surely impossile... though was there a slight possiility that Dumledore might have known some of his past misdeeds, through the orphanage. And Hogwarts... ut he knew the his Horcrux there was safe; it would e impossile for Potter to enter Hogsmeade without detection, let alone the school. Nevertheless, it would e prudent to alert Snape to the fact that the oy might try to reenter the castle. ... To tell Snape why the oy might return would e foolish, of course; it had een a grave mistake to trust Bellatrix and Malfoy. Didnt their stupidity and carelessness prove how unwise it was ever to trust? He would visit the Gaunt shack first, then, and take Nagini with him. He would not e parted from the snake anymore ... and he strode from the room, through the hall, and out into the dark garden where the fountain played; he called the snake in Parseltongue and it slithered out to join him like a long shadow. ... Harrys eyes flew open as he wrenched himself ack to the present. He was lying on the ank of the lake in the setting sun, and Ron and Hermione were looking down at him. Judging y their worried looks, and y the continued pounding of his scar, his sudden excursion into Voldemorts mind had not passed unnoticed. He struggled up, shivering, vaguely surprised that
he was still wet to his skin, and saw the cup lying innocently in the grass efore him, and the lake, deep lue shot with gold in the falling sun. "He knows." His own voice sounded strange and low after Voldemorts high screams. "He knows and hes going to check where the others are, and the last one," he was already on his feet," is at Hogwarts. I knew it. I knew it." "What?" Ron was gaping at him; Hermione sat up, looking worried. "But what did you see? How do you know?" "I saw him find out aout the cup, I - I was in his head, hes" - Harry rememered the killings - "hes seriously angry, and scared too, he cant understand how we knew, and now hes going to check the others are safe, the ring first. He things the Hogwarts one is safest, ecause Snapes there, ecause itll e so hard not to e seen getting in. I think hell check that one last, ut he could still e there within hours -" "Did you see where in Hogwarts it is?" asked Ron, now scramling to his feet too. "No, he was concentrating on warning Snape, he didnt think aout exactly where it is -" "Wait, wait!" cried Hermione as Ron caught up to the Horcrux and Harry pulled out the Invisiility Cloak again. "We cant just go, we havent got a plan, we need to -" "We need to get going," said Harry firmly. He had een hoping to sleep, looking forward to getting into the new tent, ut that was impossile now, "Can you imagine what hes going to do once he realizes the ring and the locket are gone? What if he moves the Hogwarts Horcrux, decides it isnt safe enough? "But how are we going to get in?" "Well go to Hogsmeade," said Harry, "and try to work something out once we see what the protection around the schools like. Get under the Cloak, Hermione, I want to stick together this time." "But we dont really fit -" "Itll e dark, no ones going to notice our feet." The flapping of enormous wings echoed across the lack water. The dragon had drunk its fill and risen into the air. They paused in their preparations to watch it clim higher and higher, now lack against the rapidly darkening sky, until it vanished over a neary mountain. Then Hermione walked forward and took her place etween the other two, Harry pulled the Cloak down as far as it would go, and together they turned on the spot into the crushing darkness.
Chapter Twenty-Eight
The Missing Mirror
Harrys feet touched the road. He saw the achingly familiar Hogsmeade High Street: dark shop
fronts, and the mist line of lack mountains eyond the village and the curve in the road ahead that
led off toward Hogwarts, and light spilling from the windows of the Three Broomsticks, and with a
lurch of the hear, he rememered with piercing accuracy, how he had landed here nearly a year efore,
supporting a desperately weak Dumledore, all this in a second, upon landing -- and then, even as he
relaxed his grip upon Rons and Hermiones arms, it happened.
The air was rent y a scream that sounded like Voldemorts when he had realized the cup had
een stolen: It tore at every nerve in Harrys ody, and he knew that their appearance had caused it.
Even as he looked at the other two eneath the Cloak, the door of the Three Broomsticks urst open
and a dozen cloaked and hooded Death Eaters dashed into the streets, their wands aloft.
Harry seized Rons wrist as he raised his wand; there were too many of them to run. Even
attempting it would have give away their position. One of the Death Eaters raised his wand, and the
scream stopped, still echoing around the distant mountains.
"Accio Cloak!" roared one of the Death Eaters
Harry seized his folds, ut it made no attempt to escape. The Summoning Charm had not
worked on it.
"Not under your wrapper, then, Potter?" yelled the Death Eater who had tried the charm and
then to his fellows. "Spread now. Hes here."
Six of the Death Eaters ran toward them: Harry, Ron and Hermione acked as quickly as
possile down the nearest side street, and the Death Eaters missed them y inches. They waited
in the darkness, listening to the footsteps running up and down, eams of light flying along the street
from the Death Eaters searching wands.
"Lets just leave!" Hermione whispered. "Disapparate now!"
"Great idea," said Ron, ut efore Harry could reply, a Death Eater shouted,
"We know you are here, Potter, and theres no getting away! Well find you!"
"They were ready for us," whispered Harry. "They set up that spell to tell them wed come.
I reckon they’ve done something to keep us here, trap us - "
"What aout dementors?" called another Death Eater. "Letem have free rein, theyd find him
quick enough!"
"The Dark Lord wants Potter dead y no hands ut his - "
" an dementors wont kill him! The Dark Lord wants Potters life, nor his soul. Hell e easier to
kill if hes een Kissed first!"
There were noises of agreement. Dread filled Harry: To repel dementors they would have to produce
Patronuses which would give them away immediately.
"Were going to have to try to Disapparate, Harry!" Hermione whispered.
Even as she said it, he felt the unnatural cold eing spread over the street. Light was sucked from
the environment right up to the stars, which vanished. In the pitch lackness, he felt Hermione take hold
of his arm and together, they turned on the spot.
The air through which they needed to move, seemed to have ecome solid: They could not
Disapparate; the Death Eaters had cast their charms well. The cold was iting deeper and deeper
into Harrys flesh. He, Ron and Hermione retreated down the side street, groping their way along the wall
trying not to make a sound. Then, around the corner, gliding noiselessly, came dementors, ten or more
of them, visile ecause they were of a denser darkness than their surroundings, with their lack cloaks
and their scaed and rotting hands. Could they sense fear in the vicinity? Harry was sure of it: They
seemed to e coming more quickly now, taking those dragging, rattling reaths he detested, tasting
despair in the air, closing in -
He raised his wand: He could not, would not suffer the Dementors Kiss, whatever happened afterward.
It was of Ron and Hermione that he thought as he whispered "Expecto Patronum!"
The silver stag urst from his wand and charged: The Dementors scattered and there was a triumphant
yell from somewhere out of sight
"Its him, down there, down there, I saw his Patronus, it was a stag!"
The Dementors have retreated, the stars were popping out again and the footsteps of the Death Eaters
were ecoming louder; ut efore Harry in his panic could decide what to do, there was a grinding of olts
neary, a door opened on the left-side of the narrow street, and a rough voice said: "Potter, in here, quick!"
He oeyed without hesitation, the three of them hurried through the open doorway.
"Upstairs, keep the Cloak on, keep quiet!" muttered a tall figure, passing them on his way into the street
and slammed the door ehind him.
Harry had had no idea where they were, ut now he saw, y the stuttering light of a single candle,
the gruy, sawdust ar of the Hogs Head Inn. They ran ehind the counter and through a second doorway,
which led to a trickery wooden staircase, that they climed as fast as they could. The stairs opened into
a sitting room with a durale carpet and a small fireplace, aove which hung a single large oil painting of a londe
girl who gazed out at the room with a kind of a vacant sweetness.
Shouts reached from the streets elow. Still wearing the Invisiility Cloak on, they hurried toward the
grimy window and looked down. Their savior, whom Harry now recognized as the Hogs Heads arman, was
the only person not wearing a hood.
"So what?" he was ellowing into one of the hooded faces. "So what? You send dementors down my street,
Ill send a Patronus ack atem! Im not havingem near me, Ive told you that. Im not having it!"
"That wasnt your Patronus," said a Death Eater. "That was a stag. It was Potters!"
"Stag!" roared the arman, and he pulled out a wand. "Stag! You idiot - Expecto Patronum!"
Something huge and horned erupted from the wand. Head down, it charged toward the High Street, and
out of sight.
"Thats not what I saw" said the Death Eater, though was less certainly
"Curfews een roken, you heard the noise," one of his companions told the arman. "Someone was
out on the streets against regulations - "
"If I want to put my cat out, I will, and e damned to your curfew!"
"You set off the Caterwauling Charm?"
"What if I did? Going to cart me off to Azkaan? Kill me for sticking my nose out my own front door? Do it,
then, if you want to! But I hope for your sakes you havent pressed your little Dark Marks, and summoned him. Hes
not going to like eing called here, for me and my old cat, is he, now?"
"Dont worry aout us." said one of the Death Eaters, "worry aout yourself, reaking curfew!"
"And where will you lot traffic potions and poisons when my pus closed down? What will happen to your
little sidelines then?"
"Are you threatening - ?"
"I keep my mouth shut, its why you come here, isnt it?"
"I still say I saw a stag Patronus!" shouted the first Death Eater.
"Stag?" roared the arman. "Its a goat, idiot!"
"All right, we made a mistake," said the second Death Eater. "Break curfew again and we wont e so lenient!"
The Death Eaters strode ack towards the High Street. Hermione moaned with relief, wove out from under the Cloak,
and sat down on a wole-legged chair. Harry drew the curtains then pulled the Cloak off himself and Ron. They could hear the
arman down elow, reolting the door of the ar, then climing the stairs.
Harrys attention was caught y something on the mantelpiece: a small, rectangular mirror, propped on top of it,
right eneath the portrait of the girl.
The arman entered the room.
"You loody fools," he said gruffly, looking from one to the other of them. "What were you thinking, coming here?"
"Thank you," said Harry. "You cant thank you enough. You saved our lives!"
The arman grunted. Harry approached him looking up into the face: trying to see past the long, stringy, wire-gray hair
eard. He wore spectacles. Behind the dirty lenses, the eyes were a piercing, rilliant lue.
"Its your eye Ive een seeing in the mirror."
There was a silence in the room. Harry and the arman looked at each other.
"You sent Doy."
The arman nodded and looked around for the elf.
"Thought hed e with you. Whereve you left him?
"Hes dead," said Harry, "Bellatrix Lestrange killed him."
The arman face was impassive. After a few moments he said, "Im sorry to hear it, I liked that elf."
He turned away, lightning lamps with prods of his wand, not looking at any of them.
"Youre Aerforth," said Harry to the mans ack.
He neither confirmed or denied it, ut ent to light the fire.
"How did you get this?" Harry asked, walking across to Siriuss mirror, the twin of the one he had roken
nearly two years efore.
"Bought it from Dung out a year ago," said Aerforth. "Alus told me what it was. Been trying to keep
an eye out for you."
Ron gasped.
"The silver doe," he said excitedly, "Was that you too?"
"What are you talking aout?" asked Aerforth.
"Someone sent a doe Patronus to us!"
"Brains like that, you could e a Death Eater, son. Havent I just prove my Patronus is a goat?"
"Oh," said Ron, "Yeah... well, Im hungry!" he added defensively as his stomach gave an enormous
rumle.
"I got food," said Aerforth, and he sloped out of the room, reappearing moments later with a large
loaf of read, some cheese, and a pewter jug of mead, which he set upon a small tale in front of the fire.
Ravenous, they ate and drank, and for a while there was sound of chewing.
"Right then," said Aerforth when the had eaten their fill and Harry and Ron sat slumped dozily in
their chairs. "We need to think of the est way to get you out of here. Cant e done y night, you heard what
happens if anyone moves outdoors during darkness: Caterwauling Charms set off, theyll e onto you like
owtruckles on doxy eggs. I dont reckon Ill e ale to pass of a stag as a goat a second time. Wait for dayreak
when curfew lifts, then you can put your Cloak ack on and set out on foot. Get right out of Hogsmeade, up into
the mountains, and youll e ale to Disapparate there. Might see Hagrid. Hes een hiding in a cave up there with
Grawp ever since they tried to arrest him."
"Were not leaving," said Harry. "We need to get into Hogwarts."
"Dont e stupid, oy," said Aerforth.
"Weve got to," said Harry.
"What youve got to do," said Aerforth, leaning forward, "is to get as far from here as from here as you
can."
"You dont understand. There isnt much time. Weve got to get into the castle. Dumledore - I mean,
your rother - wanted us - "
The firelight made the grimy lenses of Aerforths glasses momentarily opaque, a right flat white, and
Harry rememered the lind eyes of the giant spider, Aragog.
"My rother Alus wanted a lot of things," said Aerforth, "and people had a hait of getting hurt while he
was carrying out his grand plans. You get away from this school, Potter, and out of the country if you can. Forget
my rother and his clever schemes. Hes gone where none of this can hurt him, and you dont owe him anything."
"You dont understand." said Harry again.
"Oh, dont I? said Aerforth quietly. "You dont think I understood my own rother? Think you know Alus
etter than I did?"
"I didnt mean that," said Harry, whose rain felt sluggish with exhaustion and from the surfeit of food and wine.
"Its... he left me a jo."
"Did he now?" said Aerforth. "Nice jo, I hope? Pleasant? Easy? Sort of thing youd expect an unqualified
wizard kid to e ale to do without overstretching themselves?"
Ron gave a rather grim laugh. Hermione was looking strained.
"I-its not easy, no," said Harry. "But Ive got to - "
"Got to? Why got to? Hes dead, isnt he?" said Aerforth roughly. "Let it go, oy, efore you follow him!
Save yourself!"
"I cant."
"Why not?"
"I - " Harry felt overwhelmed; he could not explain, so he took the offensive instead. "But youre fighting too,
youre in the Order of the Phoenix - "
"I was," said Aerforth. "The Order of the Phoenix is finished. You-Know-Whos won, its over, and anyone
whos pretending differents kidding themselves. Itll never e safe for you here, Potter, he wants you too adly.
So go aroad, go into hiding, save yourself. Best take these two with you." He jerked a thum at Ron and Hermione.
"Theyll e in danger long as they live now everyone knows theyve een working with you."
"I cant leave," said Harry. "Ive got a jo - "
"Give it to someone else!"
"I cant. Its got to e me, Dumledore explained it all - "
"Oh, did he now? And did he tell you everything, was he honest with you?"
Harry wanted him with all his heart to say "Yes," ut somehow the simple word would not rise to his lips,
Aerforth seemed to know what he was thinking.
"I knew my rother, Potter. He learned secrecy at our mothers knee. Secrets and lies, thats how we grew
up, and Alus... he was a natural."
The old mans eyes traveled to the painting of the girl over the mantelpiece. It was, now Harry looked around
properly, the only picture in the room. There was no photograph of Alus Dumledore, nor of anyone else.
"Mr. Dumledore" said Hermione rather timidly. "Is that your sister? Ariana?
"Yes." said Aerforth tersely. "Been reading Rita Skeeter, have you, missy?"
Even y the rosy light of the fire it was clear that Hermione had turned red.
"Elphias Doge mentioned her to us," said Harry, trying to spare Hermione.
"That old erk," muttered Aerforth, taking another swig of mead. "Thought the sun shone out of my
rothers every office, he did. Well, so did plenty of people, you three included, y the looks of it."
Harry kept quiet. He did not want to express the douts and uncertainties aout Dumledore that had
riddled him for months now. He had made his choice while he dug Doys grave, he had decided to continue
along the winding, dangerous path indicated for him y Alus Dumledore, to accept that he had not een told
everything that he wanted to know, ut simply to trust. He had no desire to dout again; he did not want o hear
anything that would deflect him from his purpose. He met Aerforths gaze, which was so strikingly like his
rothers: The right lue eyes gave the same impression that they were X-raying the oject of their scrutiny,
and Harry thought that Aerforth knew what he was thinking and despised him for it.
"Professor Dumledore cared aout Harry, very much," said Hermione in a low voice.
"Did he now?" said Aerforth. "Funny thing how many of the people my rother cared aout very much
ended up in a worse state than if hed left em well alone."
"What do you mean?" asked Hermione reathlessly.
"Never you mind," said Aerforth.
"But thats a really serious thing to say!" said Hermione. "Are you - are you talking aout your sister?"
Aerforth glared at her: His lips moved as if he were chewing the words he was holding ack. Then he urst
into speech.
"When my sister was six years old, she was attacked, y three Muggle oys. Theyd seen her doing magic,
spying through the ack garden hedge: She was a kid, she couldnt control it, no witch or wizard can at that age.
What they saw, scared them, I expect. They forced their way through the hedge, and when she couldnt show them
the trick, they got a it carried away trying to stop the little freak doing it."
Hermiones eyes were huge in the firelight; Ron looked slightly sick. Aerforth stood up, tall as Alus, and
suddenly terrile in his anger and the intensity of his pain.
"It destroyed her, what they did: She was never right again. She wouldnt use magic, ut she couldnt get rid
of it; it turned inward and drove her mad, it exploded out of her when she couldnt control it, and at times she was
strange and dangerous. But mostly she was sweet and scared and harmless.
"And my father went after the astards that did it," said Aerforth, "and attacked them. And they locked him
up in Azkaan for it. He never said why hed done it, ecause the Ministry had known what Ariana had ecome,
shed have een locked up in St. Mungos for good. Theyd have seen her as a serious threat to the International
Statute of Secrecy, unalanced like she was, with magic exploding out of her at moments when she couldnt keep it
in any longer.
"We had to keep her safe and quiet. We moved house, put it aout she was ill, and my mother looked after
her, and tried to keep her calm and happy.
"I was her favourite," he said, and as he said it, a gruy schooloy seemed to look out through Aerforths
wrinkles and wrangled eard. "Not Alus, he was always up in his edroom when he was home, reading his ooks
and counting his prizes, keeping up with his correspondence with "the most notale magical names of the day,"
Aerforth succored. "He didnt want to e othered with her. She liked me est. I could get her to eat when she wouldnt
do it for my mother, I could calm her down, when she was in one of her rages, and when she was quiet, she used to
help me feed the goats.
"Then, when she was fourteen... See, I wasnt there." said Aerforth. "If Id een there, I could have calmed
her down. She had one of her rages, and my mother wasnt as young as she was, and . . . it was an accident. Ariana
couldnt control it. But my mother was killed."
Harry felt a horrile mixture of pity and repulsion; he did not want to hear any more, ut Aerforth kept talking,
and Harry wondered how long it had een since he had spoken aout this; whether, in fact, he had ever spoken aout it.
"So that put paid to Aluss trip round the world with little Doge. The pair of em came home for my mothers
funeral and then Doge went off on his own, and Alus settled down as head of the family. Ha!"
Aerforth spat into the fire.
"Id have looked after her, I told him so, I didnt care aout school, Id have stayed home and done it.
He told me I had to finish my education and hed take over from my mother. Bit of a comedown for Mr. Brilliant,
theres no prizes for looking after your half-mad sister, stopping her lowing up the house every other day. But he
did all right for a few weeks . . . till he came."
And now a positively dangerous look crept over Aerforth’s face.
"Grindelwald. And at last, my rother had an equal to talk to someone just as right and talented he was. And
looking after Ariana took a ackseat then, while they were hatching all their plans for a new Wizarding order and looking
for Hallows, and whatever else it was they were so interested in. Grand plans for the enefit of all Wizardkind, and if one
young girl neglected, what did that matter, when Alus was working for the greater good?
"But after a few weeks of it, Id had enough, I had. It was nearly time for me to go hack to Hogwarts, so I told em,
oth of em, face-to-face, like I am to you, now," and Aerforth looked downward Harry, and it took a little imagination to
see him as a teenager, wiry and angry, confronting his elder rother. "I told him, youd etter give it up now. You cant move her,
shes in no fit state, you cant take her with you, wherever it is youre planning to go, when youre making your clever speeches,
trying to whip yourselves up a following. He didnt like that." said Aerforth, and his eyes were riefly occluded y the fireflight on
the lenses of his glasses: They turned white and lind again. "Grindelwald didnt like that at all. He got angry. He told me what a
stupid little oy I was, trying to stand in the way of him and my rilliant rother . . . Didnt I understand, my poor sister wouldnt
have to e hidden once theyd changed the world, and led the wizards out of hiding, and taught the Muggles their place?
"And there was an argument . . . and I pulled my wand, and he pulled out his, and I had the Cruciatus Curse used on
me y my rothers est friend - and Alus was trying to stop him, and then all three of us were dueling, and the flashing lights
and the angs set her off, she couldnt stand it - "
The color was draining from Aerforths face as though he had suffered a mortal wound.
" - and I think she wanted to help, ut she didnt really know what she was doing, and I dont know which of us did it,
it could have een any of us - and she was dead."
His voice roke on the last word and he dropped down into the nearest chair. Hermiones face was wet with tears, and Ron
was almost as pale as Aerforth. Harry felt nothing ut revulsion: He wished he had not heard it, wished he could wash is mind clean of it.
"Im so . . . Im so sorry," Hermione whispered.
"Gone," croaked Aerforth. "Gone forever."
He wiped his nose on hiss cuff and cleared his throat.
" Course, Grindelwald scarpered. He had a it of a track record already, ack in his own country, and he didnt want Ariana
set to his account too. And Alus was free, wasnt he? Free of the urden of his sister, free to ecome the greatest wizard of the - "
"He was never free," said Harry.
"I eg your pardon?" said Aerforth.
"Never," said Harry. "The night that your rother died, he drank a potion that drove him out of his mind. He started screaming,
pleading with someone who wasnt there. Dont hurt them, please . . . hurt me instead. "
Ron and Hermione were staring at Harry. He had never gone into details aout what had happened on the island on the lake:
The events that had taken place after he and Dumledore had returned to Hogwarts had eclipsed it so thoroughly.
"He thought he was ack there with you and Grindelwald, I know he did," said Harry, rememering Dumledore whispering, pleading.
"He thought he was watching Grindelwald hurting you and Ariana . . . It was torture to him, if youd seen him then, you wouldnt say he was free."
Aerforth seemed lost in contemplation of his own knotted and veined hands. After a long pause he said. "How can you e sure, Potter,
that my rother wasnt more interested in the greater good than in you? How can you e sure you arent dispensale, just like my little sister?"
A shard of ice seemed to pierce Harrys heart.
"I dont elieve it. Dumledore loved Harry," said Hermione.
"Why didnt he tell him to hide, then? shot ack Aerforth. "Why didnt he say to him, Take care of yourself, heres how to survive ?"
"Because," said Harry efore Hermione could answer, "sometimes youve got to think aout more than your own safety! Sometimes
youve got to think aout the greater good! This is war!"
"Youre seventeen, oy!"
"Im of age, and Im going to keep fighting even if youve given up!"
"Who says Ive given up?"
"The Order of the Phoenix is finished," Harry repeated, "You-Know-Whos won, its over, and anyone whos pretending differents kidding
themselves."
"I dont say I like it, ut its the truth!"
"No, it isnt." said Harry. "Your rother knew how to finish You-Know-Who and he passed the knowledge on to me. Im going to keep going
until I succeed - or I die. Dont think I dont know how this might end. Ive known it for years."
He waited for Aerforth to jeer or to argue, ut he did not. He merely moved.
"We need to get into Hogwarts," said Harry again. "If you cant help us, well wait till dayreak, leave you in peace, and try to find a way
in ourselves. If you can help us - well, now would e a great time to mention it."
Aerforth remained fixed in his chair, gazing at Harry with the eye, that were so extraordinarily like his rothers. At last he cleared his
throat, got to his feet, walked around the little tale, and approached the portrait of Ariana.
"You know what to do," he said.
She smiled, turned, and walked away, not as people in portraits usually did, one of the sides of their frames, ut along what seemed to
e a long tunnel painted ehind her. They watched her slight figure retreating until finally she was swallowed y the darkness.
"Er - what - ?" egan Ron.
"Theres only one way in now," said Aerforth. "You must know theyve got all the old secret passageways covered at oth ends, dementors
all around the oundary walls, regular patrols inside the school from what my sources tell me. The place has never een so heavily guarded.
How you expect to do anything once you get inside it, with Snape in charge and the Carrows as his deputies. . . well, thats your lookout, isnt it?
You say youre prepared to die."
"But what . . . ?" said Hermione, frowning at Arianas picture.
A tiny white dot reappeared at the end of the painted tunnel, and now Ariana was walking ack toward them, growing igger and igger
as she came. But there was someody else with her now, someone taller than she was, who was limping along, looking excited. His hair was
longer than Harry had ever seen. He appeared and torn. Larger and larger the two figures grew, until only their heads and shoulders filled the portrait.
Then the whole thing swang forward on the wall like a little door, and the entrance to a real tunnel was revealed. And our of it, his hair overgrown,
his face cut, his roes ripped, clamered the real Neville Longottom, who gave a roar of delight, leapt down from the mantelpiece and yelled.
"I knew youd come! I knew it, Harry!"
Chapter Twenty-Nine
The Lost Diadem
"Neville -- what the -- how -- ?"
But Neville had spotted Ron and Hermione, and with yells of delight was hugging them too. The longer Harry looked at Neville, the worse he appeared: One of his eyes was swollen yellow and purple, there were gouge marks on his face, and his general air of unkemptness suggested that he had een living enough. Nevertheless, his attered visage shone with happiness as he let go of Hermione and said again, "I knew you’d come! Kept telling Seamus it was a matter of time!"
"Neville, what’s happened to you?"
"What? This?" Neville dismissed his injuries with a shake of the head. "This is nothing, Seamus is worse. You’ll see. Shall we get going then? Oh," he turned to Aerforth, "A, there might e a couple more people no the way."
"Couple more?" repeated Aerforth ominously. "What d’you mean, a couple more, Longottom? There’s a curfew and a Camwaulding Charm on the whole village!"
"I know, that’s why they’ll e Apparating directly into the ar," said Neville. "Just send them down the passage when they get here, will you? Thanks a lot."
Neville held out his hand to Hermione and helped her to clim up onto the mantelpiece and into the tunnel; Ron followed, then Neville. Harry addressed Aerforth.
"I don’t know how to thank you. You’ve saved our lives twice."
"Look after ‘em, then," said Aerforth gruffly. "I might not e ale to save ‘em a third time."
Harry chamered up onto the mantelpiece and through the hole ehind Ariana’s portrait. There were smooth stone steps on the other side: It looked as though the passageway had een there for years. Brass lamps hung from the walls and the earthy floor was worn and smooth; as they walked, their shadows rippled, fanlike, across the wall.
"How long’s this een here?" Ron asked as they set off. "It isn’t on the Marauder’s Map, is it Harry? I thought there were only seven passages in and out of school?"
"They sealed off all of those efore the start of the year," said Neville. "There’s no chance of getting through any of them now, not with the curses over the entrances and Death Eaters and dementors waiting at the exits." He started walking ackward, eaming, drinking them in. "Never mind that stuff ... Is it true? Did you reak into Gringotts? Did you escape on a dragon? It’s everywhere, everyone’s talking aout it, Terry Boot got eaten up y Carrow for yelling aout it in the Great Hall at dinner!"
"Yeah, it’s true," said Harry.
Neville laughed gleefully.
"What did you do with the dragon?"
"Released it into the wild," said Ron. "Hermione was all for keeping it as a pet"
"Don’t exaggerate, Ron -"
"But what have you een doing? People have een saying you’ve just een on the run, Harry, ut I don’t think so. I think you’ve een up to something."
"You’re right," said Harry, "ut tell us aout Hogwarts, Neville, we haven’t heard anything."
"It’s een .... Well, it’s not really like Hogwarts anymore," said Neville, the smile fading from his face as he spoke. "Do you know aout the Carrows?"
"Those two Death Eaters who teach here?"
"They do more than teach," said Neville. "They’re in charge of all discipline. They like punishment, the Carrows."
"Like Umridge?"
"Nah, they make her look tame. The other teachers are all supposed to refer us to the Carrows if we do anything wrong. They don’t, though, if they can avoid it. You can tell they all hate them as much as we do."
"Amycus, the loke, he teaches what used to e Defense Against the Dark Arts, except now it’s just the Dark Arts. We’re supposed to practice the Cruciatus Curse on people who’ve earned detentions - "
"What?"
Harry, Ron, and Hermione’s united voices echoed up and down the passage.
"Yeah," said Neville. "That’s how I got this one," he pointed at a particularly deep gash in his cheek, "I refused to do it. Some people are into it, though; Crae and Goyle love it. First time they’ve ever een top in anything, I expect."
"Alecto, Amycus’s sister, teaches Muggle Studies, which is compulsory for everyone. We’ve all got to listen to her explain how Muggles are like animals, stupid and dirty, and how they drive wizards into hiding y eing vicious toward them, and how the natural order is eing reestalished. I got this one," he indicated another slash to his face, "for asking her how much Muggle lood she and her rother have got."
"Blimey, Neville," said Ron, "there’s a time and a place for getting a smart mouth."
"You didn’t see her," said Neville. "You wouldn’t have stood it either. The thing is, it helps when people stand up to them, it gives everyone hope. I used to notice that when you did it, Harry."
"But they’ve used you as a knife sharpener," said Ron, winding slightly as they passed a lamp and Neville’s injuries were thrown into even greater relief.
Neville shrugged.
"Doesn’t matter. They don’t want to spill too much pure lood, so they’ll torture us a it if we’re mouthy ut they won’t actually kill us."
Harry did not know what was worse, the things that Neville was saying or the matter-of-fact tone in which he said them.
"The only people in real danger are the ones whose friends and relatives on the outside are giving troule. They get taken hostage. Old Xeno Lovegood was getting a it
too outspoken in The Quiler, so they dragged Luna off the train on the way ack for Christmas."
"Neville, she’s all right, we’ve seen her -"
"Yeah, I know, she managed to get a message to me."
From his pocket he pulled a golden coin, and Harry recognized it as one of the fake Galleons that Dumledore’s Army had used to send one another messages.
"These have een great," said Neville, eaming at Hermione. "The Carrows never rumled how we were communicating, it drove them mad. We used to sneak out at night and put graffiti on the walls: Dumledore’s Army, Still Recruiting, stuff like that. Snape hated it."
"You used to?" said Harry, who had noticed the past tense.
"Well, it got more difficult as time went one," said Neville. "We lost Luna at Christmas, and Ginny never came ack after Easter, and the three of us were sort of the leaders. The Carrows seemed to know I was ehind a lot of it, so they started coming down on me hard, and then Michael Corner went and got caught releasing a first-year they’d chained up, and they tortured him pretty adly. That scared people off."
"No kidding," muttered Ron, as the passage egan to slope upward.
"Yeah, well, I couldn’t ask people to go through what Michael did, so we dropped those kinds of stunts. But we were still fighting, doing underground stuff, right up until a couple of weeks ago. That’s when they decided there was only one way to stop me, I suppose, and they went for Gran."
"They what?" said Harry, Ron, and Hermione together.
"Yeah," said Neville, panting a little now, ecause the passage was climing so steeply, "well, you can see their thinking. It had worked really well, kidnapping kids to force their relatives to ehave. I s’pose it was only a matter of time efore they did it the other way around. Thing was," he faced them, and Harry was astonished to see that he was grinning, "they it off a it more than they could chew with Gran. Little old witch living alone, they proaly thought hey didn’t need to send anyone particularly powerful. Anyway," Neville laughed, "Dawlish is still in St. Mungo’s and Gran’s on the run. She sent me a letter," he clapped a hand to the reast pocket of his roes, "telling me she was proud of me, that I’m my parent’s son, and to keep it up."
"Cool," said Ron.
"Yea," said Neville happily. "Only thing was, once they realized they had no hold over me, they decided Hogwarts could do without me after all. I don’t know whether they were planning to kill me or send me to Azkaan, either way, I knew it was time to disappear."
"But," said Ron, looking thoroughly confused, "aren’t - aren’t we heading straight ack for Hogwarts?"
"’Course," said Neville. "You’ll see. We’re here."
They turned a corner and there ahead of them was the end of the passage. Another short flight of steps led to a door just like the one hidden ehind Ariana’s portrait. Neville pushed it open and climed through. As Harry followed, he heard Neville call out for unseen people:
"Look who it is! Didn’t I tell you?"
As Harry emerged into the room ehind the passage, there were several screams and yells: "HARRY!" "It’s Potter, it’s POTTER!" "Ron!" "Hermione!"
He had a confused impression of colored hangings, of lamps and many faces. The next moment, he, Ron, and Hermione were engulfed, hugged, pounded on the ack, their hair ruffled, their hands shaken, y what seemed to e more than twenty people. They might have just won a Quidditch final.
"Okay, okay, calm down!" Neville called, and as the crowd acked away, Harry was ale to take in their surroundings.
He did not recognize the dorm at all. It was enormous, and looked rather like the interior of a particularly sumptuous tree house, or perhaps a gigantic ship’s cain. Multicolored hammocks were strung from the ceiling and from the alcony that ran around the dark wood-paneled and windowless walls, which were covered in right tapestry hangings. Harry saw the gold Gryffindor lion, emlazoned on scarlet; the lack adger of Hufflepuff, set against yellow; and the ronze eagle of Ravenclaw, on lue. The silver and green of Slytherin alone were asent. There were ulging ookcases, a few roomsticks propped against the walls, and in the corner, a large wood-cased wireless.
"Where are we?"
"Room of Requirement, of course!" said Neville. "Surpassed itself, hasn’t it? The Carrows were chasing me, and I knew I had just one chance for a hideout: I managed to get through the door and this is what I found! Well, it wasn’t exactly like this when I arrived, it was a load smaller, there was only one hammock and just Gryffindor hangings. But it’s expanded as more and more of the D.A. have arrived."
"And the Carrows can’t get in?" asked Harry, looking around for the door.
"No," said Seamus Finnigan, whom Harry had not recognized until he spoke: Seamus’s face was ruised and puffy. "It’s a proper hideout, as long as one of us stays in here, they can’t get at us, the door won’t open. It’s all down to Neville. He really gets this room. You’ve got to ask for exactly what you need - like, "I don’t want any Carrow supporters to e ale to get in’ - and it’ll do it for you! You’ve just got to make sure you close the loopholes. Neville’s the man!"
"It’s quite straightforward, really," said Neville modestly. "I’d een in here aout a day and a half, and getting really hungry, and wishing I could get something to eat, and that’s when the passage to Hog’s Head opened up. I went through it and met Aerforth. He’s een providing us with food, ecause for some reason, that’s the one thing the room doesn’t really do.
"Yeah, well, food’s one of the five exceptions to Gamp’s Law of Elemental Transfiguration," said Ron to general astonishment.
"So we’ve een hiding out here for nearly two weeks," said Seamus, "and it just makes more hammocks every time we need room, and it even sprouted a pretty good athroom once girls started turning up - "
"-and thought they’d quite like to wash, yes," supplied Lavender Brown, whom Harry had not noticed until that point. Now that he looked around properly, he recognized many familiar faces. Both Patil twins were there, as were Terry Boot, Ernie Macmillan, Anthony Goldstein, and Michael Corner.
"Tell us what you’ve een up to, though," said Ernie. "There’ve een so many rumors, we’ve een trying to keep up with you on Potterwatch." He pointed at the wireless. "You didn’t reak into Gringotts?"
"They did!" said Neville. "And the dragon’s true too!"
There was a smattering of applause and a few whoops; Ron took a ow.
"What were you after?" asked Seamus eagerly.
Before any of them could parry the question with one of their own, Harry felt a terrile, scorching pain in the lightning scar. As he turned his ack hastily on the curious and delighted faces, the Room of Requirement vanished, and he was standing inside a ruined stone shack, and the rotting flooroards were ripped apart at his feet, a disinterred golden ox lay open and empty eside the hole, and Voldemort’s scream of fury virated inside his head.
With an enormous effort he pulled out of Voldemort’s mind again, ack to where he stood, swaying, in the Room of Requirement, sweat pouring from his face and Ron holding him up.
"Are you all right, Harry?" Neville was saying. "What to sit down? I expect you’re tired, aren’t -- ?"
"No," said Harry. He looked at Ron and Hermione, trying to tell them without words that Voldemort had just discovered the loss of one of the other Horcruxes. Time was running out fast: If Voldemort chose to visit Hogwarts next, they would miss their chance.
"We need to get going," he said, and their expressions told him that they understood.
"What are we going to do, then, Harry?" asked Seamus. "What’s the plan?"
"Plan?" repeated Harry. He was exercising all his willpower to prevent himself succuming again to Voldemort’s rage: His scar was still urning. "Well, there’s something we - Ron, Hermione, and I - need to do, and then we’ll get out of here."
Noody was laughing or whooping anymore. Neville looked confused.
"What d’you mean, ‘get out of here’?"
"We haven’t come ack to stay," said Harry, ruing his scar, trying to soothe the pain. "There’s something important we need to do - "
"What is it?"
"I - I can’t tell you."
There was a ripple of muttering at this: Neville’s rows contracted.
"Why can’t you tell us? It’s something to do with fighting You-Know-Who, right?"
"Well, yeah - "
"Then we’ll help you."
The other memers of Dumledore’s Army were nodding, some enthusiastically, others solemnly. A couple of them rose from their chairs to demonstrate their willingness for immediate action.
"You don’t understand," Harry seemed to have said that a lot in the last few hours. "We - we can’t tell you. We’ve got to do it - alone."
"Why?" asked Neville.
"Because ... " In his desperation to start looking for the missing Horcrux, or at least have a private discussion with Ron and Hermione aout where they might commence their search. Harry found it difficult to gather his thoughts. His scar was still searing. "Dumledore left the three of us a jo," he said carefully, "and we weren’t supposed to tell - I mean, he wanted us to do it, just the three of us."
"We’re his army," said Neville. "Dumledore’s Army. We were all in it together, we’ve een keeping it going while you three have een off on your own -"
"It hasn’t exactly een a picnic, mate," said Ron.
"I never said it had, ut I don’t see why you can’t trust us. Everyone in this room’s een fighting and they’ve een driven in here ecause the Carrows were hunting them down. Everyone in here’s proven they’re loyal to Dumledore - loyal to you."
"Look," Harry egan, without knowing what he was going to say, ut it did not matter. The tunnel door had just opened ehind him.
"We got your message, Neville! Hello you three, I thought you must e here!"
It was Luna and Dean. Seamus gave a great roar of delight and ran to hug his est friend.
"Hi, everyone!" said Luna happily. "Oh, it’s great to e ack!"
"Luna," said Harry distractedly, "what are you doing here? How did you -- ?"
"I sent for her," said Neville, holding up the fake Galleon. "I promised her and Ginny that if you turned up I’d let them know. We all thought that if you came ack, it would mean revolution. That we were going to overthrow Snape and the Carrows."
"Of course that’s what it means," said Luna rightly. "Isn’t it, Harry? We’re going to fight them out of Hogwarts?"
"Listen," said Harry with a rising sense of panic, "I’m sorry, ut that’s not what we came ack for. There’s something we’ve got to do, and then -"
"You’re going to leave us in this mess?" demanded Michael Cornet.
"No!" said Ron. "What we’re doing will enefit everyone in the end, it’s all aout trying to get rid of You-Know-Who - "
"Then let us help!" said Neville angrily. "We want to e a part of it!"
There was another noise ehind them, and Harry turned. His heart seemed to fall: Ginny was now climing through the hole in the wall, closely followed y Fred, George, and Lee Jordan. Ginny gave Harry a radiant smile: He had forgotten, he had never fully appreciated, how eautiful she was, ut he had never een less pleased to see her.
"Aerforth’s getting a it annoyed," said Fred, raising his hand in answer to several cries of greeting. "He wants a kip, and his ar’s turned into a railway station."
Harry’s mouth fell open. Right ehind Lee Jordan came Harry’s old girlfriend, Cho Chang. She smiled at him.
"I got the message," she said, holding up her own fake Galleon and she walked over to sit eside Michael Corner.
"So what’s the plan, Harry?" said George.
"There isn’t one," said Harry, still disoriented y the sudden appearance of all these people, unale to take everything in while his scar was still urning so fiercely.
"Just going to make it up as we go along, are we? My favorite kind," said Fred.
"You’ve got to stop this!" Harry told Neville. "What did you call them all ack for? This is insane - "
"We’re fighting, aren’t we?" said Dean, taking out his fake Galleon. "The message said Harry was ack, and we were going to fight! I’ll have to get a wand, though -"
"You haven’t got a wand--?" egan Seamus.
Ron turned suddenly to Harry.
"Why can’t they help?"
"What?"
"They can help." He dropped his voice and said, so that none of them could hear ut Hermione, who stood etween them, "We don’t know where it is. We’ve got to find it fast. We don’t have to tell them it’s a Horcrux."
Harry looked from Ron to Hermione, who murmured, "I think Ron’s right. We don’t even know what we’re looking for, we need them." And when Harry looked unconvinced, "You don’t have to do everything alone, Harry."
Harry thought fast, his scar still prickling, his head threatening to split again. Dumledore had warned him against telling anyone ut Ron and Hermione aout the Horcruxes. Secrets and lies, that’s how we grew up, and Alus ... he was a natural ... Was he turning into Dumledore, keeping his secrets clutched to his chest, afraid to trust? But Dumledore had trusted Snape, and where had that led? To murder at the top of the highest tower ...
"All right," he said quietly to the other two. "Okay," he called to the room at large, and all noise ceased: Fred and George, who had een cracking jokes for the enefit of those nearest, fell silent, and all of the looked alert, excited.
"There’s something we need to find," Harry said. "Something - something that’ll help us overthrow You-Know-Who. It’s here at Hogwarts, ut we don’t know where. It might have elonged to Ravenclaw. Has anyone heard of an oject like that? Has anyone come across something with her eagle on it, for instance?"
He looked hopefully toward the little group of Ravenclaws, to Padma, Michael, Terry, and Cho, ut it was Luna who answered, perched on the arm of Ginny’s chair.
"Well, there’s her lost diadem. I told you aout it, rememer, Harry? The lost diadem of Ravenclaw? Daddy’s trying to duplicate it."
"Yeah, ut the lost diadem," said Michael Corner, rolling his eyes, "is lost, Luna. That’s sort of the point."
"When was it lost?" asked Harry.
"Centuries ago, they say," said Cho, and Harry’s heart sank. "Professor Flitwick says the diadem vanished with Ravenclaw herself. People have looked, ut," she appealed to her fellow Ravenclaws. "Noody’s ever found a trace of it, have them?"
They all shook their heads.
"Sorry, ut what is a diadem?" asked Ron.
"It’s a kind of crown," said Terry Boot. "Ravenclaw’s was supposed to have magical properties, enhance the wisdom of the wearer."
"Yes, Daddy’s Wrackspurt siphons - "
But Harry cut across Luna.
"And none of you have ever seen anything that looks like it?
They all shook their heads again. Harry looked at Ron and Hermione and his own disappointment was mirrored ack at him. An oject that had een lost this long, and apparently without trace, did not seem like a good candidate for the Horcrux hidden in the castle ... Before he could formulate a new question, however, Cho spoke again.
"If you’d like to see what the diadem’s supposed to look like, I could take you up to our common room and show you, Harry. Ravenclaw’s wearing it in her statue."
Harry’s scar scorched again: For a moment the Room of Requirement swam efore him, and he saw instead the dark earth soaring eneath him and felt the great snake wrapped around his shoulders. Voldemort was flying again, whether to the
underground lake or here, to the castle, he did not know: Either way, there was hardly any time left.
"He’s on the move," he said quietly to Ron and Hermione. He glanced at Cho and then ack at them. "Listen, I know it’s not much of a lead, ut I’m going to go look at this statue, at least find out what the diadem looks like. Wait for me here and keep, you know - the other one - safe."
Cho had got to her feet, ut Ginny said rather fiercely, "No, Luna will take Harry, won’t you, Luna?"
"Oooh, yes, I’d like to," said Luna happily, as Cho sat down again, looking disappointed.
"How do we get out?" Harry asked Neville.
"Over here."
"He led Harry and Luna to a corner, where a small cupoard opened onto a steep staircase. "It comes out somewhere different every day, so they’ve never een ale to find it," he said. "Only troule is, we never know exactly where we’re going to end up when we go out. Be careful, Harry, they’re always patrolling the corridors at night."
"No prolem," said Harry. "See you in a it."
He and Luna hurried up the staircase, which was long, lit y torches, and turned corners in unexpected places. At last they reached what appeared to e solid wall.
"Get under here," Harry told Luna, pulling out the Invisiility Cloak and throwing it over oth of them. He gave the wall a little push.
It melted away at his touch and they slipped outside. Harry glanced ack and saw that it had resealed itself at once. They were standing in a dark corridor. Harry pulled Luna ack into the shadows, fumled in the pouch around his neck, and took out the Marauder’s Map. Holding it close to his nose he searched, and located his and Luna’s dots at last.
"We’re up on the fifth floor," he whispered, watching filch moving away from them, a corridor ahead. "Come on, this way."
They crept off.
Harry had prowled the castle at night many times efore, ut never had his heart hammered that fast, never had so much depended on his safe passage through the place. Through squares of moonlight upon the floor, past suits of armor whose helmets creaked at the sound of their soft footsteps, around corners eyond which who knew what lurked. Harry and Luna walked, checking the Marauder’s Map whenever light permitted, twice pausing to allow a ghost to pass without drawing attention to themselves. He expected to encounter an ostacle at any moment; his worst fear was Peeves, and he strained his ears with every step to hear the first, telltale signs of the poltergeist’s approach.
"The way, Harry," reathed Luna, plucking his sleeve and pulling him toward a spiral staircase.
They climed in tight, dizzying circles; Harry had never een up here efore. At last they reached a door. There was no handle and no keyhole: nothing ut a plain expanse of aged wood, and a ronze knocker in the shape an eagle.
Luna reached out a pale hand, which looked eerie floating in midair, unconnected to arm or ody. She knocked once, and in the silence it sounded to Harry like a cannon last. At once the eak of the eagle opened, ut instead of a ird’s called, a soft, musical voice said, "Which came first, the phoenix or the flame?"
"Hmm ... What do you think, Harry?" said Luna, looking thoughtful.
"What? Isn’t there a password?"
"Oh no, you’ve got to answer a question," said Luna.
"What if you get it wrong?"
"Well, you have to wait for someody who gets it right," said Luna. "That way you learn, you see?"
"Yeah ... Troule is, we can’t really afford to wait for anyone else, Luna."
"No, I see what you mean," said Luna seriously. "Well then, I think the answer is that a circle has no eginning."
"Well reasoned," said the voice, and the door swung open.
The deserted Ravenclaw common room was a wide, circular room, airier than any Harry had ever seen at Hogwarts. Graceful arched windows punctuated the walls, which were hung with lue-and-ronze silks. By day, the Ravenclaws would have a spectacular view of the surrounding mountains. The ceiling was domed and painted with stars, which were echoed in the midnight-lue carpet. There were tales, chairs, and ookcases, and in a niche opposite the door stood a tall statue of white marle.
Harry recognized Rowena Ravenclaw from the ust he had seen at Luna’s house. The statue stood eside a door that led, he guessed, to dormitories aove. He strode right up to the marle woman, and she seemed to look ack at him with a quizzical half smile on her face, eautiful yet slightly intimidating. A delicate-looking circlet had een reproduced in marle on top of her head. It was not unlike the tiara Fleur had worn at her wedding. There were tiny words etched into it. Harry stepped out from under the Cloak and climed up onto Ravenclaw’s plinth to read them.
"’Wit eyond measure is man’s greatest treasure.’"
"Which makes you pretty skint, witless," said a cackling voice.
Harry whirled around, slipped off the plinth, and landed on the floor. The sloping-shouldered figure of Alecto Carrow was standing efore him, and even as Harry raised his wand, she pressed a stuy forefinger to the skull and snake randed on her forearm.
Chapter Thirty
The Sacking of Severus Snape
The moment her finger touched the Mark, Harrys scar urned savagely, the starry room vanished from sight, and he was standing upon an outcrop of rock eneath a cliff, and the sea was washing around him and there was a triumph in his heart - They have the oy.
A loud ang rought Harry ack to where he stood. Disoriented, he raised his wand, ut the witch efore him was already falling forward; she hit the ground so hard that the glass in the ookcases tinkled.
"Ive never Stunned anyone except in our D.A. lessons," said Luna, sounding mildly interested. "That was noisier than I though it would e."
And sure enough, the ceiling had egun to tremle Scurrying, echoing footsteps were growing louder from ehind the door leading to the dormitories. Lunas spell had woken Ravenclaws sleeping aove.
"Luna, where are you? I need to get under the Cloak!"
Lunas feet appeared out of nowhere,; he hurried to her side and she let the Cloak fall ack over them as the door opened and a stream of Ravenclaws, all in their nightclothes, flooded into the common room. there were gasps and cries of surprise as they saw Alecto lying there unconscious. Slowly they shuffled in around her, a savage east that might wake at any moment and attack them. Then one rave little first-year darted up to her and prodded her ackside with his ig toe.
"I think she might e dead!" he shouted with delight.
"Oh look," whispered Luna happily, as the Ravenclaws crowded in around Alecto. "Theyre pleased!"
"Yeah... great... "
Harry closed his eyes, and as his scar throed he chose to sink again into Voldemorts mind.... He was moving along the tunnel into the first cave.... He had chosen to make sure of the locker efore coming...ut that would not take him long....
There was a rap on the common room door and every Ravenclaw froze. From the other side, Harry heard the soft, musical voice that issued from the eagle door knocker: "Where do Vanished ojects go?"
"I dunno, do I? Shut it!" snarled an uncouth voice that Harry knew was that of the Carrow rother , Amycus, "Alecto? Alecto? Are you there? Have you got him? Open the door!"
The Ravenclaws were whispering amongst themselves, terrified. Then without warning, there came a series of loud angs, as though someody was firing a gun into the door.
"ALECTO! If he comes, and we havent got Potter --dyou want to go the same way as the Malfoys? ANSWER ME!" Amycus ellowed, shaking the door for all he was worth, ut still it did not open. The Ravenclaws were all acking away, and some of the most frightened egan scampering ack up the stair case to their eds. Then, just as Harry was wondering whether he ought not to last open the door and Stun Amycus efore the Death Eater could do anything else, a second, most familiar voice rang out eyond the door.
"May I ask what you are doing, Professor Carrow?"
"Trying-to get-- through this damned-- door!" shouted Amycus. "Go and get Flitwick! Get him to open it, now!"
"But isnt your sister in there" asked Professor McGonagall. "Didnt Professor Flitwick let her in earlier this evening, at your urgent request? Perhaps she could open the door for you? Then you neednt wake up half the castle."
"She aint answering, you old esom! You open it! Garn! Do it, now!"
"Certainly, if you wish it," said Professor McGonagall, with awful coldness, There was a genteel tap of the knocker and the musical voice asked again.
"Where do Vanished ojects go?"
"Into non eing, which is to say, everything," replied Professor McGonagall.
"Nicely phrased," replied the eagle door knocker, and the door swung open.
The few Ravenclaws who had remained ehind sprinted for the stairs as Amycus urst over the threshold, randishing his wand. Hunched like his sister, he had a pallid, doughy face and tiny eyes, which fell at once on Alecto, sprawled motionless on the floor. He let out a yell of fury and fear.
"Whatve they done, the little whelps?" he screamed. "Ill Cruciate the lot of em till they tell me who did it---and whats the Dark Lord going to say?" he shrieked, standing over his sister and smacking himself on the forehead with his fist, "We havent got him, and theyve gone and killed her!"
"Shes only Stunned," said Professor McGonagall impatiently, who had stooped down to examine Alecto. "Shell e perfectly all right."
"No she ludgering well wont!" ellowed Amycus. "Not after the Dark Lord gets hold of her! Shes gone and sent for him, I felt me Mark urn, and he thinks weve got Potter!"
"Got Potter?" said Professor McGonagall sharply, "What do you mean, got Potter?"
"He told us Potter might try and get inside Ravenclaw Tower, and to send for him if we caught him!"
"Why would Harry Potter try to get inside Ravenclaw Tower! Potter elongs in my House!"
Beneath the diselief and anger, Harry heard a little strain of pride in her voice and affection for Minerva McGonagall gushed up inside him.
"We was told he might come in here!" said Carrow. "I dunno why, do I?"
Professor McGonagall stood up and her eady eyes swept the room. Twice they passed right over the place where Harry and Luna stood.
"We can push it off on the kids," said Amycus, his pig like face suddenly crafty. "Yeah, thats what well do. Well say Alecto was amushed y the kids, them kids up there" -- he looked up at the starry ceiling toward the dormitories -- " and well say they forced her to pres her Mark, and thats why he got a false alarm.... He can punish them. Couple of kids more or less, whats the difference?"
"Only the difference etween truth and lied, courage and cowardice," said Professor McGonagall, who had turned pale, "a difference, in short, which you and your sister seem unale to appreciate. But let me make one thing very clear. You are not going to pass off y9our many ineptitudes on the students of Hogwarts. I shall not permit it."
"Excuse me?"
Amycus moved forward until he was offensively close to Professor McGonagall, his face within inches of hers. She refused to ack away, ut looked down at him as if he were something disgusting she had found stuck to the lavatory seat.
"Its not a case of what youll permit, Minerva McGonagall. Your times over. Its us whats in charge here now, and youll ack me up or youll pay the price."
And he spat in her face.
Harry pulled the Cloak off himself, raised his wand, and said, "You shouldnt have done that."
As Amycus spun around, Harry shouted, "Crucio!"
The Death Eater was lifted off his feet. He writhed through the air like a drowning man, thrashing and howling in pain, and then, with a crunch and a shattering of glass, he smashed into the front of a ookcase and crumpled, insensile, to the floor.
"I see what Bellatrix meant," said Harry, the lood thundering through his rain, "you need to really mean it."
"Potter!" whispered Professor McGonagall, clutching her heart. "Potter--- youre here! What---? How---?" She struggled to pull herself together. "Potter, that was foolish!"
"He spat at you," said Harry.
"Potter, I --- that was very --- gallant of you --- ut dont you realize --?"
"Yeah, I do," Harry assured her. Somehow her panic steadied him. "Professor McGonagall, Voldemorts on the way."
"Oh, are we allowed to say the name now?" asked Luna with an air of interest, pulling off the Invisiility Cloak. The appearance of a second outlaw seemed to overwhelm Professor McGonagall, who staggered ackward and fell into a neary chair, clutching at the neck of her old tartan dressing gown.
"I dont think it makes any difference what we call him," Harry told Luna. "He already knows where I am."
In a distant part of Harrys rain, that part connected to the angry, urning scar, he could see Voldemort sailing fast over the dark lake in the ghostly green oat.... He had nearly reached the island where the stone asin stood....
"You must flee," whispered Professor McGonagall, "Now Potter, as quickly as you can!"
"I cant," said Harry, "Theres something I need to do. Professor, so you know where the diadem of Ravenclaw is?"
"The d-diadem of Ravenclaw? Of course not --- hasnt it een lost for centuries?" She sat up a little straighter "Potter, it was madness, utter madness, for you to enter this castle---"
"I had to," said Harry. "Professor, theres something hidden here that Im supposed to find, and it could e the diadem--- if I could just speak to Professor Flitwick---"
There was a sound of movement, of clinking glass. Amycus was coming round. Before Harry or Luna could act, Professor McGonagall rose to her feet, pointed her wand at the groggy Death Eater, and said, "Imperio."
Amycus got up, walked over to his sister, picked up her wand, then shuffled oediently to Professor McGonagall and handed it over along with his own. Then he lay down on the floor eside Alecto. Professor McGonagall waved her wand again, and a length of shimmering silver rope appeared out of thin air and snaked around the Carrows, inding them tightly together.
"Potter," said Professor McGonagall, turning to face him again with super indifference to the Carrows predicament. "if He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named does indeed know that you are here---"
As she said it, a wrath that was like physical pain lazed through Harry, setting his scar on fire, and for a second he looked down upon a asin whose potion had turned clear, and saw that no golden locket lay safe eneath the surface---.
"Potter, are you all right." said a voice, and Harry came ack. He was clutching Lunas shoulder to steady himself.
"Times running out, Voldemorts getting nearer, Professor, Im acting on Dumledores orders, I must find what he wanted me to find! But weve got to get the students out while Im searching the castle--- Its me Voldemort wants, ut he wont care
aout killing a few more or less, not now---" not now he knows Im attacking Horcruxes, Harry finished the sentence in his head.
"Youre acting on Dumledores orders?" she repeated with a look of dawning wonder. Then she drew herself up to her fullest height.
"We shall secure the school against He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named while you search for this --- this oject."
"Is that possile?"
"I think so," said Professor McGonagall dryly, "we teachers are rather good at magic, you know. I am sure we will e ale to hold him off for a while if we all put our est efforts into it. Of course, something will have to e done aout Professor Snape---"
"Let me ---"
"---and if Hogwarts is aout to enter a state of siege, with the Dark Lord at the gates, it would indeed e advisale to take as many innocent people out of the way as possile. With the Floo Network under oservation, and Apparition impossile within the grounds---"
"Theres a way," said Harry quickly, and he explained aout the passageway leading into the Hogs Head.
"Potter, were talking aout hundreds of students---"
"I know, Professor, ut if Voldemort and the Death Eaters are concentrating on the school oundaries they wont e interested in anyone whos Disapparating out of Hogs Head."
"Theres something in that," she agreed. She pointed her wand at the Carrows, and a silver net fell upon their ound odies, tied itself around them, and hoisted them into the air, where they dangled eneath the lue-and-gold ceiling like two large, ugly sea creatures. "Come. We must alert the other Heads of House. Youd etter put that Cloak ack on."
She marched toward the door, and as she did so she raised her wand. From the tip urst three silver cats with spectacle markings around their eyes. the Patronuses ran sleekly ahead, filling the spiral staircase with silvery light, as Professor McGonagall, Harry, and Luna hurried ack down.
Along the corridors they raced, and one y one the Patronuses left them. Professor McGonagalls tartan dressing gown rustled over the floor, and Harry and Luna jogged ehind her under the Cloak.
They had descended two more floors when another set of quiet joined theirs. Harry, whose scar was still prickling, heard them first. He felt in the pouch around his neck for the Marauders Map, ut efore he could take it our, McGonagall too seemed to ecome aware of their company. She halted, raised her wand ready to duel, and said, "Whos there?"
"It is I," said a low voice.
From ehind a suit of armor stepped Severus Snape.
Hatred oiled up in Harry at the sight of him. He had forgotten the details of Snapes appearance in the magnitude of his crimes, forgotten how his greasy lack hair hung in curtains around his thin face, how his lack eyes had a dead, cold look. He was not wearing nightclothes, ut was dressed in his usual lack cloak, and he too was holding his wand ready for a fight.
"Where are the Carrows?" he asked quietly.
"Wherever you told them to e, I expect, Severus," said Professor McGonagall.
Snape stepped nearer, and his eyes flitted over Professor McGonagall into the air around her, as if he knew that Harry was there. Harry held his wand up too, ready to attack.
"I was under the impression," said Snape, "That Alecto had apprehended an intruder."
"Really?" said Professor McGonagall. "And what gave you that impression?"
Snape mad a slight flexing movement of his left arm, where the Dark Mark was randed into his skin.
"Oh, ut naturally," said Professor McGonagall. "You Death Eaters have your own private means of communication, I forgot."
Snape pretended not to have heard her. His eyes were still proing the air all aout her, and he was moving gradually closer, with an air of hardly noticing what he was doing.
"I did not know that it was your night to patrol the corridors Minerva."
"You have some ojection?"
"I wonder what could have rought you out of our ed at this late hour?"
"I thought I heard a disturance," said Professor McGonagall.
"Really? But all seems calm."
Snape looked into her eyes.
"Have you seen Harry Potter, Minerva? Because if you have. I must insist---"
Professor McGonagall moved faster than Harry could have elieved. Her wand slashed through the air and for a split second Harry thought that Snape must crumple, unconscious, ut the swiftness of his Shield Charm was such that McGonagall was thrown off alance. =She randished her wand at a touch on the wall and it flew out of its racket. Harry, aout to curse Snape, was forced to pull Luna out of the way of the descending flames, which ecame a ring of fire that filled the corridor and flew like a lasso at Snape---
Then it was no longer fire, ut a great lack serpent that McGonagall lasted to smoke, which re-formed and solidified in seconds to ecome a swarm of pursuing daggers. Snape avoided them only y forcing the suit of armor in front of him, and with echoing clangs the daggers sank, one after another, into its reast---
"Minerva!" said a squeaky voice, and looking ehind him, still shielding Luna from flying spells, Harry saw Professors Flitwick and Sprout sprinting up the corridor toward them in their nightclothes, with the enormous Professor Slughorn panting along at the rear.
"No!" squealed Flitwick, raising his wand. "Youll do no more murder at Hogwarts!"
Flitwicks spell hit the suit of armor ehind which Snape had taken shelter. With a clatter it came to life. Snape struggled free of the crushing arms and sent it flying ack toward his attackers. Harry and Luna had to dive sideways to avoid it as it smashed into the wall and shattered. When Harry looked up again, Snape was in full flight, McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout all thundering after him. He hurtled through a classroom door and, moments later, he heard McGonagall cry, "Coward! COWARD!"
"Whats happened, whats happened?" asked Luna.
Harry dragged her to her feet and they raced along the corridor, trailing the Invisiility Cloak ehind them, into the deserted classroom where Professors McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout were standing at a smashed window.
"He jumped," said Professor McGonagall as Harry and Luna ran into the room.
"You mean hes dead?" Harry sprinted to the window, ignoring Flitwicks and Sprouts yells of shock at his sudden appearance.
"No, hes not dead," said McGonagall itterly. "Unlike Dumledore, he was still carrying a wand... and he seems to have learned a few tricks from his master."
With a tingle of horror, Harry saw in the distance a huge, at like shape flying through the darkness toward the perimeter wall.
There were heavy footfalls ehind them, and a great deal of puffing. Slughorn had just caught up.
"Harry!" he panted, massaging his immense chest eneath his emerald-green silk pajamas. "My dear oy... what a surprise...Minerva, do please explain...Severus...what...?"
"Our headmaster is taking a short reak," said Professor McGonagall, pointing at the Snape-shaped hole in the window.
"Professor!" Harry shouted his hand on his forehead, He could see the Inferi-filled lake sliding eneath him, and he felt a ghostly green oat ump into the underground shore, and Voldemort lept from it with murder in his heart---
"Professor, weve got to arricade the school, hes coming now!"
"Very well. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is coming," she told the other teachers. Sprout and Flitwick gasped. Slughorn let out a low groan. "Potter has work to do in the castle on Dumledores orders. We need to put in place every protection of which we are capale while Potter does what he needs to do."
"You realize , of course, that nothing we do will e ale to keep out You-Know-Who indefinitely?" squeaked Flitwick.
"But we can hold him up." said Professor Sprout.
"Thank you, Pomona," said Professor McGonagall, and etween the two witches there passed a look of grim understanding. I suggest we estalish asic protection around the place, then gather our students and meet in the Great Hall. Most must e evacuated, though if any of those who are over age wish to stay and fight, I think they ought to e given the chance."
"Agreed," said Professor Sprout, already hurrying toward the door. "I shall meet you in the Great Hall in twenty minutes with my House."
And as she jogged out of sight, they could hear her muttering, "Tentacula, Devils Snare. And Snargaluff pods...yes, Id like to see the Death Eaters fighting those."
I can act from here," said Flitwick, and although he could arely see out of it, he pointed his wand through the smashed window and started muttering incantations of great complexity. Harry heard a weird rushing noise, as though Flitwick had unleashed the power of the wind into the grounds.
"Professor," Harry said, approaching the little Charms master. "Professor, Im sorry to interrupt, ut this is important. Have you got any idea where the diadem of Ravenclaw is?"
"---Protego Horriillis---the diadem of Ravenclaw?" squeaked Flitwick. "A little extra wisdom never goes amiss, Potter, ut I hardly think it would e much use in this situation!"
"I only meant --- do you know where it is? Have you ever seen it?"
"Seen it" Noody has seen it in living memory! Long since lost, oy."
Harry felt a mixture of desperate disappointment and panic. What, then, was the Horcrux?
"We shall meet you and your Ravenclaws in the Great Hall, Filius!" said Professor McGonagall, eckoning to Harry and Luna to follow her.
They had just reached the door when Slughorn rumled into speech.
"My word," he puffed, pale and sweaty, his walrus mustache aquiver. "What a to-do! Im not at all sure whether this is wise, Minerva. He is ound to find a way in, you know, and anyone who has tried to delay him will e in the most grievous peril---"
"I shall expect you and the Slytherins in the Great Hall in twenty minutes also." said Professor McGonagall. "If you wish to leave with your students, we shall not stop you. But if any of you attempt to saotage our resistance or take up arms against us within this castle, then, Horace, we duel to kill."
"Minerva!" he said, aghast.
"The time has come for Slytherin House to decide upon its loyalties," interrupted Professor McGonagall. "Go and wake your students, Horace."
Harry did not stay to watch Slughorn splutter. He and Luna stayed after Professor McGonagall, who had taken up a position in the middle of the corridor and raised her wand.
"Piertotum---oh, for heavens sake, Filch, not now---"
The aged caretaker had just come holing into view, shouting "Students out of ed! Students in the corridors!"
"Theyre supposed to e you lithering idiot!" shouted McGonagall. "Now go and do something constructive! Find Peeves!"
P-Peeves?" stammered Filch as though he had never heard the name efore.
"Yes, Peeves, you fool, Peeves! Havent you een complaining aout him for a quarter of a century? Go and fetch him, at once.
Filch evidently thought Professor McGonagall had taken leave of her senses, ut holed away, hunch-shouldered, muttering under his reath.
"And now---Piertotum Locomator!" cried Professor McGonagall. And all along the corridor the statues and suits of armor jumped down from their plinths, and from the echoing crashes from the floors aove and elow, Harry knew that their fellows throughout the castle had done the same.
"Hogwarts is threatened!" shouted Professor McGonagall. "Man the oundaries, protect us, do your duty to our school!"
Clattering and yelling, the horde of moving statues stampeded past Harry, some of them smaller, others larger than life. There were animals too, and the clanking suits of armor randished swords and spiked alls on chains.
"Now, Potter," said McGonagall., "you and Miss Lovegood had etter return to your friends and ring them to the Great Hall --- I shall rouse the other Gryffindors."
They parted at the top of the next staircase, Harry and Luna turning ack toward the concealed entrance to the Room of Requirement. As they ran, they met crowds of
students, most wearing traveling cloaks over their pajamas, eing shepherded down to the Great Hall y teachers and prefects.
"That was Potter!"
"Harry Potter!"
"It was him, I swear, I just saw him!"
"But Harry did not look ack, and at last they reached the entrance to the Room of Requirement, Harry leaned against the enchanted wall, which opened to admit them, and he and Luna sped ack down the steep staircase.
"Wh--?"
As the room came into view, Harry slipped down a few stairs in shock. It was packed, far more crowded than when he had last een in there. Kingsley and Lupin were looking up at him, as were Oliver Wood, Katie Bell, Angelina Johnson and Alicia Spinnet, Bill and Fleur, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley.
"Harry, whats happening?" said Lupin, meeting him at the foot of the stairs.
"Voldemorts on his way, theyre arricading he school---Snapes run for it---What are you doing here? How did you know?
"We sent messages to the rest of Dumledores Army," Fred explained. "You couldnt expect everyone to miss the fun, Harry, and the D.A. let the Order of the Phoenix know, and it all kind of snowalled."
"What first, Harry?" called George. "Whats going on?"
"Theyre evacuating the younger kids and everyones meeting in the Great Hall to get organized," Harry said. "Were fighting."
There was a great roar and a surge toward the stairs, he was pressed ack against he wall as they ran past hi, the mingled memers of the Order of the Phoenix, Dumledores Army, and Harrys old Quidditch team, all with their wands drawn, heading up into the main castle.
"Come on, Luna," Dean called as he passed, holding out his free hand, she took it and followed him ack up the stairs.
The crowd was thinning. Only a little knot of people remained elow in the Room of Requirement, and Harry joine3d them. Mrs. Weasley was struggling with Ginny. Around them stood Lupin, Fred, George, Bill and Fleur.
"Youre underage!" Mrs. Weasley shouted at her daughter as Harry approached "I wont permit it! The oys, yes, ut you, youve got to go home!"
"I wont!"
"Ginnys hair flew as she pulled her arm out of her mothers grip.
"Im in Dumledores Army---"
"A teenagers gang!"
"A teenagers gang thats aout to take him on, which no one else has dared to do!" said Fred.
"Shes sixteen!" shouted Mrs. Weasley. "Shes not old enough! What you two were thinking ringing her with you--"
Fred and George looked slightly ashamed of themselves.
Moms right, Ginny," said Bill gently. "You cant do this. Everyone underage will have to leave, its only right."
"I cant go home!" Ginny shouted, angry tears sparkling in her eyes. "my whole familys here, I cant stand waiting there alone and not knowing and --"
Her eyes met Harrys for the first time. She looked at him eseechingly, ut he shook his head and she turned away itterly.
"Fine," she said, staring at the entrance to the tunnel ack to the Hogs Head. "Ill say good-y now, then, and---"
There was a scuffling and a great thump. Someone else had clamered out of the tunnel, overalanced slightly, and fallen. He pulled himself up no the nearest chair, looked around through lopsided horn-rimmed glasses, and said, "Am I too late? Has it started. I only just found out, so I --- I ---"
Percy spluttered into silence. Evidently he had not expected to run into most of his family. There was a long moment of astonishment, roken y Fleur turning to Lupin and saying, in a wildly transparent attempt to reak the tension. "So--- ow eez leetle Teddy?"
Lupin linked at her, startled. The silence etween the Weasleys seemed to e solidifying, like ice.
"I --- oh yes--- hes fine!" Lupin said loudly. "yes, Tonks is with him--- at her mothers ---"
Percy and the other Weasleys were still staring at one another, frozen.
"Here, Ive got a picture?" Lupin shouted, pulling a photograph from inside his jacket and showing it to Fleur and Harry, who saw a tiny ay with a tuft of right turquoise hair, waving fat fists at the camera.
"I was a fool!" Percy roared, so loudly that Lupin nearly dropped his photograph. "I was an idiot, I was a pompous prat, I was a - a --"
"Ministry-loving, family-disowning, power-hungry moron," said Fred.
Percy swallowed.
"Yes, I was!"
"Well, you cant say fairer than that," said Fred, holding his hand out to Percy.
Mrs. Weasley urst into tears,. She ran forward, pushed Fred aside, and pulled Percy into a strangling hug, while he patted her on the ack, his eyes on his father.
"Im sorry, Dad," Percy said.
Mr. Weasley linked rather rapidly, then he too hurried to hug his son.
"What made you see sense, Perce?" inquired George.
"Its een coming on for a while," said Percy, mopping his eyes under his glasses with a corner of his traveling cloak. "But I had to find a way out and its not so easy at the Ministry, theyre imprisoning traitors all the time. I managed to make contact with Aerforth and he tipped me off ten minutes ago that Hogwarts was going to make a fight of it, so here I am."
"Well, we do look to our prefects to take a lead at times such as these," said George in a good imitation of Percys most pompous manner. "Now lets get upstairs and fight, or all the good Death Eatersll e taken."
"So, youre my sister in-law now?" Said Percy, shaking hands with Fleur as they hurried off toward the staircase with Bill, Fred, and George.
"Ginny!" arked Mrs. Weasley.
Ginny had een attempting, under cover of the reconciliations to sneak upstairs too.
"Molly, how aout this," said Lupin. "Why doesnt Ginny stay here , then at least shell e on the scene and know whats going on, ut she wont e in the middle of the fighting?"
"I---"
"Thats a good idea," said Mr. Weasley firmly, " Ginny, you stay in this room, you hear me?"
Ginny did not seem to like the idea much, ut under her fathers unusually stern gaze, she nodded. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Lupin headed off to the stairs as well.
"Wheres Ron?" asked Harry, "Wheres Hermione?"
"They must have gone up the Great Hall already," Mr. Weasley called over his shoulder.
" I didnt see them pass me," said Harry.
"They said something aout a athroom," said Ginny, "not long after you left."
"A athroom?"
Harry strode across the room to an open door leading off the Room of Requirement and checked the athroom eyond. It was empty.
"Youre sure they said ath---?"
But then his scar seared and the Room of Req1uirement vanished. He was looking through the high wrought-iron gates with winged oats on pillars at either side, looking through the dark grounds toward the castle, which was alaze with lights. Nagini lay draped over his shoulders. He was possessed of that cold, cruel sense of purpose that preceded murder.
Chapter Thirty-One
The Battle of Hogwarts
The enchanted ceiling of the Great Hall was dark and scattered with stars, and elow it the four long House tales were lined with disheveled students, some in traveling cloaks, others in dressing gowns. Here and there shone the pearly white figures of the school ghosts. Every eye, living and dead was fixed upon Professor McGonagall, who was speaking from the raised platform at the top of the Hall. Behind her stood the remaining teaches, including the palomino centaur, Firenze, and the memers of the Order of the Phoenix who had arrived to fight.
"...evacuation will e overseen y Mr. Filch and Madame Pomfrey. Prefects, when I give the word, you will organize your House and take your charges in orderly fashion to the evacuation point.
Many of the students looked petrified. However, as Harry skirted the walls, scanning the Gryffindor tale for Ron and Hermione, Ernie Macmillan stood up at the Hufflepuff tale and shouted; "And what if we want to stay and fight?"
There was a smattering of applause.
"If you are of age, you may stay." said Professor McGonagall.
"What aout our things?" called a girl at the Ravenclaw tale. "Our trunks, our owls?"
"We have no time to collect possessions." said Professor McGonagall. "The important thing is to get you out of here safely."
"Wheres Professor Snape?" shouted a girl from the Slytherin tale.
"He has, to use the common phrase, done a unk." replied Professor McGonagall and a great cheer erupted from the Gryffindors, Hufflepuffs, and Ravenclaws.
Harry moved up the Hall alongside the Gryffindor tale, still looking for Ron and Hermione. As he passed, faces turned in his direction, and a great deal of whispering roke out in his wake.
"We have already placed protection around the castle," Professor McGonagall was saying, "ut it is unlikely to hold for very long unless we reinforce it. I must ask you, therefore, to move quickly and calmly, and do as your prefects -"
But her final words were drowned as a different voice echoed throughout the Hall. It was high, cold, and clear. There was no telling from where it came. It seemed to issue from the walls themselves. Like the monster it had once commanded, it might have lain dormant there for centuries.
"I know that you are preparing to fight." There were screams amongst the students, some of whom clutched each other, looking around in terror for the source of the sound. "Your efforts are futile. You cannot fight me. I do not want to kill you. I have great respect for the teachers of Hogwarts. I do not want to spill magical lood."
There was silence in the Hall now, the kind of silence that presses against the eardrums, that seems too huge to e contained y walls.
"Give me Harry Potter," said Voldemorts voice, "and they shall not e harmed. Give me Harry Potter and I shall leave the school untouched. Give me Harry Potter and you will e rewarded.
"You have until midnight."
The silence swallowed them all again. Every head turned, every eye in the place seemed to have found Harry, to hold him forever in the glare of thousands of invisile eams. Then a figure rose from the Slytherin tale and he recognized Pansy Parkinson as she raised a shaking arm and screamed, "But hes there! Potters there. Someone gra him!"
Before Harry could speak, there was a massive movement. The Gryffindors in front of him had risen and stood facing, not Harry, ut the Slytherins. Then the Hufflepuffs stood, and almost at the same moment, the Ravenclaws, all of them with their acks to Harry, all of them looking toward Pansy instead, and Harry, awestruck and overwhelmed, saw wands emerging everywhere, pulled from eneath cloaks and from under sleeves.
"Thank you, Miss Parkinson." said Professor McGonagall in a clipped voice. "You will leave the Hall first with Mr. Filch. If the rest of your House could follow."
Harry heard the grinding of the enches and then the sound of the Slytherins trooping out on the other side of the Hall.
"Ravenclaws, follow on!" cried Professor McGonagall.
Slowly the four tales emptied. The Slytherin tale was completely deserted, ut a numer of older Ravenclaws remained seated while their fellows filed out; even more Hufflepuffs stayed ehind, and half of Gryffindor remained in their seats, necessitating Professor McGonagalls descent from the teachers platform to chivvy the underage on their way.
"Asolutely not, Creevey, go! And you, Peakes!"
Harry hurried over to the Weasleys, all sitting together at the Gryffindor tale.
"Where are Ron and Hermione?"
"Havent you found -?" egan Mr. Weasley, looking worried.
But he roke off as Kingsley had stepped forward on the raised platform to address those who had remained ehind.
"Weve only got half an half an hour until midnight, so we need to act fast. A attle plan has een agreed etween the teachers of Hogwarts and the Order of the Phoenix. Professors Flitwick, Sprout and McGonagall are going to take groups of fighters up to the three highest towers - Ravenclaw, Astronomy, and Gryffindor - where theyll have good overview, excellent positions from which to work spells. Meanwhile Remus" - he indicated Lupin - "Arthur" - he pointed toward Mr. Weasley, sitting at the Gryffindor tale - "and I will take groups into the grounds. Well need someody to organize defense of the entrances or the passageways into the school -"
"Sounds like a jo for us." called Fred, indicating himself and George, and Kingsley nodded his approval.
"All right, leaders up here and well divide up the troops!"
"Potter," said Professor McGonagall, hurrying up to him, as students flooded the platform, jostling for position, receiving instructions, "Arent you supposed to e looking for something?"
"What? Oh," said Harry, "oh yeah!"
He had almost forgotten aout the Horcrux, almost forgotten that the attle was eing fought so that he could search for it: The inexplicale asence of Ron and Hermione had momentarily driven every other thought from his mind.
"Then go, Potter, go!"
"Right - yeah -"
He sensed eyes following him as he ran out of the Great Hall again, into the entrance hall still crowded with evacuating students. He allowed himself to e swept up the marle staircase with them, ut at the top he hurried off along a deserted corridor. Fear and panic were clouding his thought processes. He tried to calm himself, to concentrate on finding the Horcrux, ut his thoughts uzzed as frantically and fruitlessly as wasps trapped eneath a glass. Without Ron and Hermione to help him he could not seem to marshal his ideas. He slowed down, coming to a halt halfway along a passage, where he sat down on the plinth of a departed statue and pulled the Marauders Map out of the pouch around his neck. He could not see Rons of Hermiones names anywhere on it, though the density of the crowd of dots now making its way to the Room of Requirement might, he thought, e concealing them. He put the map away, pressed his hands over his face, and closed his eyes, trying to concentrate.
Voldemort thought Id go to Ravenclaw Tower.
There it was, a solid fact, the place to start. Voldemort had stationed Alecto Carrow in the Ravenclaw common room, and there could e only one explanation; Voldemort feared that Harry already knew his Horcrux was connected to that House.
But the only oject anyone seemed to associate with Ravenclaw was the lost diadem... and how could the Horcrux e the diadem? How was it possile that Voldemort, the Slytherin, had found the diadem that had eluded generations of Ravenclaws? Who could have told him where to look, when noody had seen the diadem in living memory?
In living memory...
Beneath his fingers, Harrys eyes flew open again. He leapt up from the plinth and tore ack the way he had come, now in pursuit of his one last hope. The sound of hundreds of people marching toward the Room of Requirement grew louder and louder as he returned to the marle stairs. Prefects were shouting instructions, trying to keep track of the students in their own houses, there was much pushing and shouting; Harry
saw Zacharias Smith owling over first years to get to the front of the queue, here and there younger students were in tears, while older ones called desperately for friends or silings.
Harry caught sight of a pearly white figure drifting across the entrance hall elow and yelled as loudly as he could over the clamor.
"Nick! NICK! I need to talk to you!"
He forced his way ack through the tide of students, finally reaching the ottom of the stairs, where Nearly Headless Nick, ghost of Gryffindor Tower, stood waiting for him.
"Harry! My dear oy!"
Nick made to grasp Harrys hands with oth of his own; Harry felt as though they had een thrust into icy water.
"Nick, youve got to help me. Whos the ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?"
Nearly Headless Nick looked surprised and a little offended.
"The Gray Lady, of course; ut if it is ghostly services you require -?"
"Its got to e her - dyou know where she is?"
"Lets see..."
Nicks head woled a little on his ruff as he turned hither and thither, peering over the heads of the swarming students.
"Thats her over there, Harry, the young woman with the long hair."
Harry looked in the direction of Nicks transparent, pointing finger and saw a tall ghost who caught sight of Harry looking at her, raised her eyerows, and drifted away through a solid wall.
Harry ran after her. Once through the door of the corridor into which she had disappeared, he saw her at the very end of the passage, still gliding smoothly away from him.
"hey - wait - come ack!"
She consented to pause, floating a few inches from the ground. Harry supposed that she was eautiful, with her waist-length hair and floor-length cloak, ut she also
looked haughty and proud. Close in, he recognized her as a ghost he had passed several times in the corridor, ut to whom he had never spoken.
"Youre the Gray Lady?"
She nodded ut did not speak.
"The ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?"
"That is correct."
Her tone was not encouraging.
"Please, I need some help. I need to know anything you can tell me aout the lost diadem."
A cold smile curved her lips.
"I am afraid," she said, turning to leave, "that I cannot help you."
"WAIT!"
He had not meant to shout, ut anger and panic were threatening to overwhelm him. He glanced at his watch as she hovered in front of him. It was a quarter to midnight.
"This is urgent." he said fiercely. "If that diadems at Hogwarts, Ive got to find it, fast."
"You are hardly the first student to covet the diadem." she said disdainfully. "Generations of students have adgered me -"
"This isnt aout trying to get etter marks!" Harry shouted at her, "Its aout Voldemort - defeating Voldemort - or arent you interested in that?"
She could not lush, ut her transparent cheeks ecame more opaque, and her voice was heated as she replied, "Of course I - how dare you suggest -?"
"Well, help me then!"
Her composure was slipping.
"It - it is not a question of -" she stammered. My mothers diadem -"
"Your mothers?"
She looked angry with herself.
"When I lived," she said stiffly, "I was Helena Ravenclaw."
"Youre her daughter? But then, you must know what happed to it."
"While the diadem estows wisdom," she said with an ovious effort to pull herself together, "I dout that it would greatly increase you chances of defeating the wizard who calls himself Lord -"
Havent I told you, Im not interested in wearing it!" Harry said fiercely. "Theres no time to explain - ut if you care aout Hogwarts, if you want to see Voldemort finished, youve got to tell me anything you know aout the diadem!"
She remained quite still, floating in midair, staring down at him, and a sense of hopelessness engulfed Harry. Of course, if she had known anything, she would have told Flitwick of Dumledore, who had surely asked her the same question. He had shaken his head and made to turn away when she spoke in a low voice.
"I stole the diadem from my mother."
"You - you did what?"
"I stole the diadem." repeated Helena Ravenclaw in a whisper. "I sought to make myself cleverer, more important than my mother. I ran away with it."
He did not know how he had managed to gain her confidence and did not ask, he simply listened, hard, as she went on.
"My mother, they say, never admitted that the diadem was gone, ut pretended that she had it still. She concealed her loss, my dreadful etrayal, even from the other founders of Hogwarts.
"Then my mother fell ill - fatally ill. In spite of my perfidy, she was desperate to see me one more time. She sent a man who had long loved me, though I spurned his advances, to find me. She knew that he would not rest until he had done so."
Harry waited. She drew a deep reath and threw ack her head.
"He tracked me to the forest where I was hiding. When I refused to return with him, he ecame violent. The aron was always a hot-tempered man. Furious at my refusal, jealous of my freedom, he staed me."
"The Baron? You mean -?"
"he Bloody Baron, yes," said the Gray Lady, and she lifted aside the cloak she wore to reveal a single dark wound in her white chest. When he saw what he had done, he was overcome with remorse. He took the weapon that had claimed my life, and used it to kill himself. All these centuries later, he wears his chains as an act of penitence ... as he should." she added itterly.
"And - and the diadem?"
"It remained where I had hidden it when I heard the Baron lundering through the forest toward me. Concealed inside a hollow tree."
"A hollow tree?" repeated Harry. "What tree? Where was this?"
"A forest in Alania. A lonely place I thought was far eyond my mothers reach."
"Alania," repeated Harry. Sense was emerging miraculously from confusion, and now he understood why she was telling him what she had denied Dumledore and Flitwick. "Youve already told someone this story, havent you? Another student?"
She closed her eyes and nodded.
"I had... no idea... He was flattering. He seemed to... understand... to sympathize..."
Yes, Harry thought. Tom Riddle would certainly have understood Helena Ravenclaws desire to possess faulous ojects to which she had little right.
"Well, you werent the first person Riddle wormed things out of." Harry muttered. "He could e charming when he wanted..."
So, Voldemort had managed to wheedle the location of the lost diadem out of the Gray Lady. He had traveled to that far-flung forest and retrieved the diadem from its hiding place, perhaps as soon as he left Hogwarts, efore he even started work at Borgin and Burkes.
And wouldnt those secluded Alanian woods have seemed an excellent refuge when, so much later, Voldemort and needed a place to lie low, undistured, for ten long years?
But the diadem, once it ecame his precious Horcrux, had not een left in that lowly tree. . . . No, the diadem had een returned secretly to its true home, and Voldemort must have put it there -
"-the night he asked for a jo!" said Harry, finishing his thought.
"I eg your pardon?"
"He hid the diadem in the castle, the night he asked Dumledore to let him teach!" said Harry. Saying it out loud enaled him to make sense of it all. "He must’ve hidden the diadem on his way up to, or down from, Dumledore’s office! But it was well worth trying to get the jo - then he might’ve got the chance to nick Gryffindor’s sword as well - thank you, thanks!"
Harry left her floating there, looking utterly ewildered. As he rounded the corner ack into the entrance hall, he checked his watch. It was five minutes until midnight, and though he now knew what the last Horcrux was, he was no closer to discovering where it was. . .
Generations of students had failed to find the diadem; that suggested that it was not in Ravenclaw Tower - ut if not there, where? What hiding place had Tom Riddle discovered inside Hogwarts Castle, that he elieved would remain secret forever?
Lost in desperate speculation, Harry turned a corner, ut he had taken only a few steps down the new corridor when the window to his left roke open with a deafening, shattering crash. As he leapt aside, a gigantic ody flew in through the window and hit the opposite wall.
Something large and furry detached itself, whimpering, from the new arrival and flung itself at Harry.
"Hagrid!" Harry ellowed, fighting off Fang the oarhound’s attentions as the enormous earded figure clamered to his feet "What the --?"
"Harry, yer here! Yer here!"
Hagrid stooped down, estowed upon Harry a cursory and ri-cracking hug, then ran ack to the shattered window.
"Good oy, Grawpy!" he ellowed through the hole in the window. "I’ll se yer in a moment, there’s a good lad!"
Beyond Hagrid, out in the dark night, Harry saw ursts of light in the distance and heard a weird, keening scream. He looked down at his watch: It was midnight. The attle had egun.
"Blimey, Harry," panted Hagrid, "this is it, eh? Time ter fight?"
"Hagrid, where have you come from?"
"Heard You-Know-Who from up in our cave," said Hagrid grimly. "Voice carried, didn’t it? ‘Yet got till midnight ter gimme Potter.’ Knew yeh mus’ e here, knew that mus’ e happenin’. Get down, Fang. So we come ter join in, me an’ Grawpy an’ Fang. Smashed our way through the oundary y the forest, Grawpy was carryin’ us, Fang an’ me. Told him ter let me down at the castle, so he shoved me through the window, less him. Not exactly what I meant, u’ - where’s Ron an’ Hermione?"
"That," said Harry, "is a really good question. Come on."
They hurried together along the corridor, Fang lolloping eside them. Harry could hear movement through the corridors all around: running footsteps, shouts; through the windows, he could see more flashes of light in the dark grounds.
"Where’re we goin’?" puffed Hagrid, pounding along at Harry’s heels, making the flooroards quake.
"I dunno exactly," said Harry, making another random turn, "ut Ron and Hermione must e around here somewhere. . . ."
The first casualties of the attle were already strewn across the passage ahead: The two stone gargoyles that usually guarded the entrance to the staffroom had een
smashed apart y a jinx that had sailed through another roken window. Their remains stirred feely on the floor, and as Harry leapt over one of their disemodied heads, it moaned faintly. "Oh, don’t mind me . . . I’ll just e here and crumle. . . ."
Its ugly stone face made Harry think suddenly of the marle ust of Rowena Ravenclaw at Xenophilius’s house, wearing that mad headdress - and then of the statue in Ravenclaw Tower, with the stone diadem upon her white curls. . . .
And as he reached the end of the passage, the memory of a third stone effigy came ack to him: that of an ugly old warlock, onto whose head Harry himself had placed a wig and a attered old hat. The shock shot through Harry with the heat of firewhisky, and he nearly stumled.
He knew, at least, where the Horcrux sat waiting for him. . . .
Tom Riddle, who confided in no one and operated alone, might have een arrogant enough to assume that he, and only he, had penetrated the deepest mysteries of Hogwarts Castle. Of course, Dumledore and Flitwick, those model pupils, had never set foot in that particular place, ut he, Harry, had strayed off the eaten track in his time at school - here at least was a secret area he and Voldemort knew, that Dumledore had never discovered -
He was roused y Professor Sprout, who was thundering past followed y Neville and half a dozen others, all of them wearing earmuffs and carrying what appeared to e large potted plants.
"Mandrakes!" Neville ellowed at Harry over his shoulder as he ran. "Going to lo them over the walls - they won’t like this!"
Harry knew now where to go. He sped off, with Hagrid and Fang galloping ehind him. They passed portrait after portrait, and the painted figures raced alongside them, wizards and witches in ruffs and reeches, in armor and cloaks, cramming themselves into each others’ canvases, screaming news from other parts of the castle. As they reached the end of this corridor, the whole castle shook, and Harry knew, as a gigantic vase lew off its plinth with explosive force, that it was in the grip of enchantments more sinister than those of the teachers and the Order.
"It’s all righ’, Fang - it’s all righ’!" yelled Hagrid, ut the great oarhound had taken flight as slivers of china flew like shrapnel through the air, and Hagrid pounded off after the terrified dog, leaving Harry alone.
He forged on through the tremling passages, his wand at the ready, and for the length of one corridor the little painted knight, Sir Cadrigan, rushed from painting to painting eside him, clanking along in his armor, screaming encouragement, his fat little pony cantering ehind him.
"Braggarts and rogues, dogs and scoundrels, drive them out, Harry Potter, see them off!"
Harry hurtled around a corner and found Fred and a small knot of students, including Lee Jordan and Hannah Aott, standing eside another empty plinth, whose statue had concealed a secret passageway. Their wands were drawn and they were listening at the concealed hole.
"Nice night for it!" Fred shouted as the castle quaked again, and Harry sprinted y, elated and terrified in equal measure. Along yet another corridor he dashed, and then there were owls everywhere, and Mrs. Norris was hissing and trying to at them with her paws, no dout to return them to their proper place. . . .
"Potter!"
Aerforth Dumledore stood locking the corridor ahead, his wand held ready.
"I’ve had hundreds of kids thundering through my pu, Potter!" "I know, we’re evacuating," Harry said, "Voldemort’s -"
"- attacking ecause they haven’t handed you over, yeah," said Aerforth. "I’m not deaf, the whole of Hogsmeade heard him. And it never occurred to any of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are kids of Death Eaters you’ve just sent to safety. Wouldn’t it have een a it smarter to keep ‘em here?" "It wouldn’t stop Voldemort," said Harry, "and your rother would never have done it." Aerforth grunted and tore away in the opposite direction.
Your rother would never have done it. . . . Well, it was the truth, Harry thought as he ran on again: Dumledore, who had defended Snape for so long, would never have held students ransom. . . .
And then he skidded around a final corner and with a yell of mingled relief and fury he saw them: Ron and Hermione; oth with their arms full of large, curved, dirty yellow ojects, Ron with a roomstick under his arms.
"Where the hell have you een?" Harry shouted.
"Chamer of Secrets," said Ron.
"Chamer - what?" said Harry, coming to an unsteady halt efore them.
"It was Ron, all Ron’s idea!" said Hermione reathlessly. "Wasn’t it asolutely rilliant? There we were, after we left, and I said to Ron, even if we find the other one, how are we going to get rid of it? We still hadn’t got rid of the cup! And then he thought of it! The asilisk!"
"What the - ?"
"Something to get rid of Horcruxes," said Ron simply.
Harry’s eyes dropped to the ojects clutched in Ron and Hermione’s arms: great curved fangs; torn, he now realized, from the skull of a dead asilisk.
"But how did you get in there?" he asked, staring from the fangs to Ron. "You need to speak Parseltongue!" "He did!" whispered Hermione. "Show him, Ron!" Ron made a horrile strangled hissing noise.
"It’s what you did to open the locket," he told Harry apologetically. "I had to have a few goes to get it right, ut," he shrugged modestly, "we got there in the end." "He was amazing!" said Hermione. "Amazing!"
"So . . ." Harry was struggling to keep up. "So . . ."
"So we’re another Horcrux down," said Ron, and from under his jacket he pulled the mangled remains of Hufflepuff’s cup. "Hermione staed it. Thought she should. She hasn’t had the pleasure yet." "Genius!" yelled Harry.
"It was nothing," said Ron, though he looked delighted with himself. "So what’s new with you?"
As he said it, there was an explosion from overhead: All three of them looked up as dust fell from the ceiling and they heard a distant scream.
"I know what the diadem looks like, and I know where it is," said Harry, talking fast. "He hid it exactly where I had my old Potions ook, where everyone’s een hiding
stuff for centuries. He thought he was the only one to find it. Come on." As the walls tremled again, he led the other two ack through the concealed entrance and down the staircase into the Room of Requirement. It was empty except for three women: Ginny, Tonks and an elderly witch wearing a moth-eaten hat, whom Harry recognized immediately as Neville’s grandmother.
"Ah, Potter," she said crisply as if she had een waiting for him. "You can tell us what’s going on." "Is everyone okay?" said Ginny and Tonks together.
"’S far as we know," said Harry. "Are there still people in the passage to the Hog’s Head?"
He knew that the room would not e ale to transform while there were still users inside it.
"I was the last to come through," said Mrs. Longottom. "I sealed it, I think it unwise to leave it open now Aerforth has left his pu. Have you seen my grandson?"
"He’s fighting," said Harry.
"Naturally," said the old lady proudly. "Excuse me, I must go and assist him." With surprising speed she trotted off toward the stone steps.
Harry looked at Tonks.
"I thought you were supposed to e with Teddy at your mother’s?" "I couldn’t stand not knowing -" Tonks looked anguished. "She’ll look after him - have you seen Remus?" "He was planning to lead a group of fighters into the grounds -"
Without another word, Tonks sped off.
"Ginny," said Harry, "I’m sorry, ut we need you to leave too. Just for a it. Then you can come ack in."
Ginny looked simply delighted to leave her sanctuary.
"And then you can come ack in!" he shouted after her as she ran up the steps after Tonks. "You’ve got to come ack in!"
"Hang on a moment!" said Ron sharply. "We’ve forgotten someone!" "Who?" asked Hermione.
"The house-elves, they’ll all e down in the kitchen, won’t they?" "You mean we ought to get them fighting?" asked Harry.
"No," said Ron seriously, "I mean we should tell them to get out. We don’t want anymore Doies, do we? We can’t order them to die for us -"
There was a clatter as the asilisk fangs cascaded out of Hermione’s arms. Running at Ron, she flung them around his neck and kissed him full on the mouth. Ron threw away the fangs and roomstick he was holding and responded with such enthusiasm that he lifted Hermione off her feet.
"Is this the moment?" Harry asked weakly, and when nothing happened except that Ron and Hermione gripped each other still more firmly and swayed on the spot, he raised his voice. "Oi! There’s a war going on here!" Ron and Hermione roke apart, their arms still around each other.
"I know, mate," said Ron, who looked as though he had recently een hit on the ack of the head with a Bludger, "so it’s now or never, isn’t it?"
"Never mind that, what aout the Horcrux?" Harry shouted. "D’you think you could just - just hold it in until we’ve got the diadem?"
"Yeah - right - sorry -" said Ron, and he and Hermione set aout gathering up fangs, oth pink in the face.
It was clear, as the three of them stepped ack into the corridor upstairs, that in the minutes that they had spent in the Room of Requirement the situation within the castle had deteriorated severely: The walls and ceiling were shaking worse than ever; dust filled the air, and through the nearest window, Harry saw ursts of green and red light so close to the foot of the castle that he knew the Death Eaters must e very near to entering the place. Looking down, Harry saw Grawp the giant meandering past, swinging what looked like a stone gargoyle torn from the roof and roaring his displeasure.
"Let’s hope he steps on some of them!" said Ron as more screams echoed from close y.
"As long as it’s not any of our lot!" said a voice: Harry turned and saw Ginny and Tonks, oth with their wands drawn at the next window, which was missing several panes. Even as he watched, Ginny sent a well-aimed jinx into a crowd of fighters elow.
"Good girl!" roared a figure running through the dust toward them, and Harry saw Aerforth again, his gray hair flying as he led a small group of students past. "They look like they might e reaching the north attlements, they’ve rought giants of their own."
"Have you seen Remus?" Tonks called after him.
"He was dueling Dolohov," shouted Aerforth, "haven’t seen him since!" "Tonks," said Ginny, "Tonks, I’m sure he’s okay -"
But Tonks had run off into the dust after Aerforth.
Ginny turned, helpless, to Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
"They’ll e all right," said Harry, though he knew they were empty words. "Ginny, we’ll e ack in a moment, just keep out of the way, keep safe - come on!" he said to Ron and Hermione, and they ran ack to the stretch of wall eyond which the Room of Requirement was waiting to do the idding of the next entrant.
I need the place where everything is hidden. Harry egged of it inside his head, and the door materialized on their third run past.
The furor of the attle died the moment they crossed the threshold and closed the door ehind them: All was silent. They were in a place the size of a cathedral with the appearance of a city, its towering walls uilt of ojects hidden y thousands of long-gone students.
"And he never realized anyone could get in?" said Ron, his voice echoing in the silence.
"He thought he was the only one," said Harry. "Too ad for him I’ve had to hide stuff in my time . . . this way," he added. "I think it’s down here. . . ." They sped off up adjacent aisles; Harry could hear the others’ footsteps echoing through the towering piles of junk, of ottles, hats, crates, chairs, ooks, weapons, roomsticks, ats. . . .
"Somewhere near here," Harry muttered to himself. "Somewhere . . . somewhere . . ."
Deeper and deeper into the layrinth he went, looking for ojects he recognized from his one previous trip into the room. His reath was loud in his ears, and then his very soul seemed to shiver. There it was, right ahead, the listered old cupoard in which he had hidden his old Potions ook, and on top of it, the pockmarked stone warlock wearing a dusty old wig and what looked like an ancient discolored tiara.
He had already stretched out his hand, though he remained few feet away, when a voice ehind him said, "Hold it, Potter."
He skidded to a halt and turned around. Crae and Goyle were standing ehind him, shoulder to shoulder, wands pointing right at Harry. Through the small space etween their jeering faces he saw Draco Malfoy.
"That’s my wand you’re holding, Potter," said Malfoy, pointing his own through the gap etween Crae and Goyle.
"Not anymore," panted Harry, tightening his grip on the hawthorn wand. "Winners, keepers, Malfoy. Who’s lent you theirs?"
"My mother," said Draco.
Harry laughed, though there was nothing very humorous aout the situation. He could not hear Ron or Hermione anymore. They seemed to have run out of earshot, searching for the diadem.
"So how come you three aren’t with Voldemort?" asked Harry.
"We’re gonna e rewarded," said Crae. His voice was surprisingly soft for such an enormous person: Harry had hardly ever heard him speak efore. Crae was speaking like a small child promised a large ag of sweets. "We ‘ung ack, Potter. We decided not to go. Decided to ring you to ‘im."
"Good plan," said Harry in mock admiration. He could not elieve that he was this close, and was going to e thwarted y Malfoy, Crae, and Goyle. He egan edging slowly ackward toward the place where the Horcrux sat lopsided upon the ust. If he could just get his hands on it efore the fight roke out . . .
"So how did you get in here?" he asked, trying to distract them.
"I virtually lived in the Room of Hidden Things all last year," said Malfoy, his voice rittle. "I know how to get in."
"We was hiding in the corridor outside," grunted Goyle. "We can do Diss-lusion Charms now! And then," his face split into a gormless grin, "you turned up right in front of us and said you was looking for a die-dum! What’s a die-dum?"
"Harry?" Ron’s voice echoed suddenly from the other side of the wall to Harry’s right. "Are you talking to someone?"
With a whiplike movement, Crae pointed his wand at the fifty foot mountain of old furniture, of roken trunks, of old ooks and roes and unidentifiale junk, and shouted, "Descendo!"
The wall egan to totter, then the top third crumled into the aisle next door where Ron stood.
"Ron!" Harry ellowed, as somewhere out of sight Hermione screamed, and Harry heard innumerale ojects crashing to the floor on the other side of the destailized wall: He pointed his wand at the rampart, cried, "Finite!" and it steadied.
"No!" shouted Malfoy, staying Crae’s arm as the latter made to repeat his spell. "If you wreck the room you might ury this diadem thing!"
"What’s that matter?" said Crae, tugging himself free. "It’s Potter the Dark Lord wants, who cares aout a die-dum?"
"Potter came in here to get it," said Malfoy with ill-disguised impatience at the slow-wittedness of his colleagues. "so that must mean -"
"’Must mean’?" Crae turned on Malfoy with undisguised ferocity. "Who cares what you think? I don’t take your orders no more, Draco. You an’ your dad are finished."
"Harry?" shouted Ron again, from the other side of the junk wad. "What’s going on?"
"Harry?" mimicked Crae. "What’s going on - no, Potter! Crucio!"
Harry had lunged for the tiara; Crae’s curse missed him ut hit the stone ust, which flew into the air; the diadem soared upward and then dropped out of sight in the mass of ojects on which the ust had rested.
"STOP!" Malfoy shouted at Crae, his voice echoing through the enormous room. "The Dark Lord wants him alive -"
"So? I’m not killing him, am I?" yelled Crae, throwing off Malfoy’s restraining arm. "But if I can, I will, the Dark Lord wants him dead anyway, what’s the diff - ?"
A jet of scarlet light shot past Harry y inches: Hermione had run around the corner ehind him and sent a Stunning Spell straight at Crae’s head. It only missed ecause Malfoy pulled him out of the way.
"It’s that Mudlood! Avada Kedavra!"
Harry saw Hermione dive aside, and his fury that Crae had aimed to kill wiped all else from his mind. He shot a Stunning Spell at Crae, who lurched out of the way, knocking Malfoy’s wand out of his hand; it rolled out of sight eneath a mountain of roken furniture and ones.
"Don’t kill him! DON’T KILL HIM!" Malfoy yelled at Crae and Goyle, who were oth aiming at Harry: Their split second’s hesitation was all Harry needed.
"Expelliarmus!"
Goyle’s wand flew out of his hand and disappeared into the ulwark of ojects eside him; Goyle leapt foolishly on the spot, trying to retrieve it; Malfoy jumped out of range of Hermione’s second Stunning Spell, and Ron, appearing suddenly at the end of the aisle, shot a full Body-Bind Curse at Crae, which narrowly missed.
Crae wheeled around and screamed, "Avada Kedavra!" again. Ron leapt out of sight to avoid the jet of green light. The wand-less Malfoy cowered ehind a three-legged wardroe as Hermione charged toward them, hitting Goyle with a Stunning Spell as she came.
"It’s somewhere here!" Harry yelled at her, pointing at the pile of junk into which the old tiara had fallen. "Look for it while I go and help R -"
"HARRY!" she screamed.
A roaring, illowing noise ehind him gave him a moment’s warning. He turned and saw oth Ron and Crae running as hard as they could up the aisle toward them.
"Like it hot, scum?" roared Crae as he ran.
But he seemed to have no control over what he had done. Flames of anormal size were pursuing them, licking up the sides of the junk ulwarks, which were crumling to soot at their touch.
"Aguamenti!" Harry awled, ut the jet of water that soared from the tip of his wand evaporated in the air.
"RUN!"
Malfoy graed the Stunned Goyle and dragged him along; Crae outstripped all of them, now looking terrified; Harry, Ron, and Hermione pelted along in his wake, and the fire pursued them. It was not normal fire; Crae had used a curse of which Harry had no knowledge. As they turned a corner the flames chased them as though they were alive, sentient, intent upon killing them. Now the fire was mutating, forming a gigantic pack of
fiery easts: Flaming serpents, chimaeras, and dragons rose and fell and rose again, and the detritus of centuries on which they were feeding was thrown up into the air into their fanged mouths, tossed high on clawed feet, efore eing consumed y the inferno.
Malfoy, Crae, and Goyle had vanished from view: Harry, Ron and Hermione stopped dead; the fiery monsters were circling them, drawing closer and closer, claws and horns and tails lashed, and the heat was solid as a wall around them.
"What can we do?" Hermione screamed over the deafening roars of the fire. "What can we do?"
"Here!"
Harry seized a pair of heavy-looking roomsticks from the nearest pile of junk and threw one to Ron, who pulled Hermione onto it ehind him. Harry swung his leg over the second room and, with hard kicks to the ground, they soared up in the air, missing y feet the horned eak of a flaming raptor that snapped its jaws at them. The smoke and heat were ecoming overwhelming: Below them the cursed fire was consuming the contraand of generations of hunted students, the guilty outcomes of a thousand anned experiments, the secrets of the countless souls who had sought refuge in the room. Harry couldnot see a trace of Malfoy, Crae, or Goyle anywhere. He swooped as low as he dare over the marauding monsters of flame to try to find them, ut there was nothing ut fire: What a terrile way to die. . . . He had never wanted this. . . .
"Harry, let’s get out, let’s get out!" ellowed Ron, though it was impossile to see where the door was through the lack smoke.
And then Harry heard a thin, piteous human scream from amidst the terrile commotion, the thunder of devouring flame.
"It’s - too - dangerous - !" Ron yelled, ut Harry wheeled in the air. His glasses giving his eyes some small protection from the smoke, he raked the firestorm elow, seeking a sign of life, a lim or a face that was not yet charred like wood. . . .
And he saw them: Malfoy with his arms around the unconscious Goyle, the pair of them perched on a fragile tower of charred desks, and Harry dived. Malfoy saw him coming and raised one arm, ut even as Harry grasped it he knew at once that it was no good. Goyle was too heavy and Malfoy’s hand, covered in sweat, slid instantly out of Harry’s -
"IF WE DIE FOR THEM, I’LL KILL YOU, HARRY!" roared Ron’s voice, and, as a great flaming chimaera ore down upon them, he and Hermione dragged Goyle onto their room and rose, rolling and pitching, into the air once more as Malfoy clamered up ehind Harry.
"The door, get to the door, the door!" screamed Malfoy in Harry’s ear, and Harry sped up, following Ron, Hermione, and Goyle through the illowing lack smoke, hardly ale to reathe: and all around them the last few ojects unurned y the devouring flames were flung into the air, as the creatures of the cursed fire cast them high in celeration: cups and shields, a sparkling necklace, and an old, discolored tiara -
"What are you doing, what are you doing, the door’s that way!" screamed Malfoy, ut Harry made a hairpin swerve and dived. The diadem seemed to fall in slow motion, turning and glittering as it dropped toward the maw of a yawning serpent, and then he had it, caught it around his wrist -
Harry swerved again as the serpent lunged at him; he soared upward and straight toward the place where, he prayed, the door stood open; Ron, Hermione and Goyle had
vanished; Malfoy was screaming and holding Harry so tightly it hurt. Then, through the smoke, Harry saw a rectangular patch on the wall and steered the room at it, and moments later clean air filled his lungs and they collided with the wall in the corridor eyond.
Malfoy fell off the room and lay facedown, gasping, coughing, and retching. Harry rolled over and sat up: The door to the Room of Requirement had vanished, and Ron and Hermione sat panting on the floor eside Goyle, who was still unconscious.
"C-Crae," choked Malfoy as soon as he could speak. "C-Crae . . ."
"He’s dead," said Ron harshly.
There was silence, apart from panting and coughing. Then a numer of huge angs shook the castle, and a great cavalcade of transparent figures galloped past on horses, their heads screaming with loodlust under their arms. Harry staggered to his feet when the Headless Hunt had passed and looked around: The attle was still going on all around him. He could hear more scream than those of the retreating ghosts. Panic flared within him.
"Where’s Ginny?" he said sharply. "She was here. She was supposed to e going ack into the Room of Requirement."
"Blimey, d’you reckon it’ll still work after that fire?" asked Ron, ut he too got to his feet, ruing his chest and looking left and right. "Shall we split up and look - ?"
"No," said Hermione, getting to her feet too. Malfoy and Goyle remained slumped hopelessly on the corridor floor; neither of them had wands. "Let’s stick together. I say we go - Harry, what’s that on your arm?"
"What? Oh yeah -"
He pulled the diadem from his wrist and held it up. It was still hot, lackened with soot, ut as he looked at it closely he was just ale to make out the tiny words etched upon it; WIT BEYOND MEASURE IS MAN’S GREATEST TREASURE.
A loodlike sustance, dark and tarry, seemed to e leaking from the diadem. Suddenly Harry felt the thing virate violently, then reak apart in his hands, and as it did so, he thought he heard the faintest, most distant scream of pain, echoing not from the grounds or the castle, ut from the thing that had just fragmented in his fingers.
"It must have een Fiendfyre!" whimpered Hermione, her eyes on the roken piece.
"Sorry?"
"Fiendfyre - cursed fire - it’s one of the sustances that destroy Horcruxes, ut I would never, ever have dared use it, it’s so dangerous - how did Crae know how to - ?"
"Must’ve learned from the Carrows," said Harry grimly.
"Shame he wasn’t concentrating when they mentioned how to stop it, really," said Ron, whose hair, like Hermione’s, was singed, and whose face was lackened. "If he hadn’t tried to kill us all, I’d e quite sorry he was dead."
"But don’t you realize?" whispered Hermione. "This means, if we can just get the snake -"
But she roke off as yells and shouts and the unmistakale noises of dueling filled the corridor. Harry looked around and his heart seemed to fail: Death Eaters had penetrated Hogwarts. Fred and Percy had just acked into view, oth of them dueling masked and hooded men.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione ran forward to help: Jets of light flew in every direction and the man dueling Percy acked off, fast: Then his hood slipped and they saw a high forehead and streaked hair -
"Hello, Minister!" ellowed Percy, sending a neat jinx straight at Thicknesse, who dropped his wand and clawed at the front of his roes, apparently in awful discomfort. "Did I mention I’m resigning?"
"You’re joking, Perce!" shouted Fred as the Death Eater he was attling collapsed under the weight of three separate Stunning Spells. Thicknesse had fallen to the ground with tiny spikes erupting all over him; he seemed to e turning into some form of sea urchin. Fred looked at Percy with glee.
"You actually are joking, Perce. . . . I don’t think I’ve heard you joke since you were -"
The air exploded. They had een grouped together, Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and Percy, the two Death Eaters at their feet, one Stunned, the other Transfigured; and in that fragment of a moment, when danger seemed temporarily at ay, the world was rent apart, Harry felt himself flying through the air, and all he could do was hold as tightly as possile to that thin stick of wood that was his one and only weapon, and shield his head in his arms: He heard the screams and yells of his companions without a hope of knowing what had happened to them -
And then the world resolved itself into pain and semidarkness: He was half uried in the wreckage of a corridor that had een sujected to a terrile attack. Cold air told him that the side of the castle had een lown away, and hot stickiness on his cheek told him that he was leeding copiously. Then he heard a terrile cry that pulled at his insides, that expressed agony of a kind neither flame nor curse could cause, and he stood up, swaying, more frightened than he had een that day, more frightened, perhaps, than he had een in his life. . . .
And Hermione was struggling to her feet in the wreckage, and three redheaded men were grouped on the ground where the wall had lasted apart. Harry graed Hermione’s hand as they staggered and stumled over stone and wood.
"No - no - no!" someone was shouting. "No! Fred! No!"
And Percy was shaking his rother, and Ron was kneeling eside them, and Fred’s eyes stared without seeing, the ghost of his last laugh still etched upon his face.
Chapter Thirty-Two
The Elder Wand
The world had ended, so why had the attle not ceased, the castle fallen silent in horror, and every comatant laid down their arms? Harrys mind was in free fall, spinning out of control, unale to grasp the impossiility, ecause Fred Weasley could not e dead, the evidence of all his senses must e lying-- And then a ody fell past the hole lown into the side of the
school and curses flew in at them from the darkness, hitting the wall ehind their heads. "Get down!" Harry shouted, as more curses flew through the night: He and Ron had oth graed Hermione and pulled her to the floor, ut Percy lay across Freds ody, shielding it from further harrm, and when Harry shouted "Percy, come on, weve got to move!" he shook his head. "Percy!" Harry saw tear tracks streaking the grime coating rons face as he sezied his elder rothers shoulders and pulled, ut Percy would not udge. "Percy, you cant do anything for him! Were going to--" Hermione screamed, and Harry, turning, did not need to ask why. A monstrous spider the size of a small car was trying to clim through the huge hole in the wall. one of Aragogs descendants had joined the fight. Ron and Harry shouted together; their spells collided and the monster was lown ackward, its legs jerking horrily, and vanished into the darkness. "It rought friends!" Harry called to the others, glancing over the edge of the castle through the hole in the wall the curses had lasted. More giant spiders were climing the side of the uilding, lierated from the Foridden Forest, into which the Death Eaters must have penetrated. Harry fired Stunning Spells down upon them, knocking the lead monster into its fellows, so that they rolled ack down the uilding and out of sight. Then more curses came soaring over Harrys head, so close he felt the force of them low his hair. "Lets move, NOW!" Pushing Hermione ahead of him with ron, Harry stooped to seize Freds ody under the armpit. Percy, realizing what Harry was trying to do, stopped clinging to the ody and helped: together, crouching low to avoid the curses flying at them from the grounds, they hauled Fred out of the way. "Here," said Harry, and they placed him in a niche where a suit of armor had stood earlier. He could not ear to look at Fred a second longer than he had to, and after making sure that the ody was well- hidden, he took off after ron and Hermione. Malfoy and Goyle had vanished ut at the end of the corridor, which was now full of dust and falling masonry, glass long gone from windows, he saw many people running ackward and forward, whether friends or foes he could not tell. Rounding the corner, Percy let out a ull-like roar: "ROOKWOOD!" and sprinted off in the direction of a tall man, who was pursuing a couple of students. "Harry, in here!" Hermione screamed. She had pulled Ron ehind a tapestry. They seemed to e wrestling together, and for one mad second Harry thought that they were
emracing again; then hhe saw that Hermione was trying to restrain Ron, to stop him running after Percy. "Listen to me--LISTEN RON!" "I wanna help--I wanna kill Death Eaters--" His face was contorted, smeared with dust and smoke, and he was shaking with rage and grief. "ron, were the only ones who can end it! Please--ron--we need the snake, weve got to kill the snake!" said Hermione. But Harry knew how Ron felt: Pursuing another Horcrux could not ring the satisfaction of revenge; he too wanted to fight, to punish them, the people who had killed Fred, and he wanted to find the other Weasleys, and aove all make sure, make quite sure, that Ginny was not--ut he could not permit that idea to form in his mind-- "We will fight!" Hermione said. "Well have to, to reach the snake! But lets not lose sight now of what were supposed to e d-doing! Were the only ones who can end it!" She was crying too, and she wiped her face on her torn and singed sleeve as she spoke, ut she took great heaving reaths to calm herself as, still keeping a tight hold on ron, she turned to Harry. "You need to find out where Voldemort is, ecause hell have the snake with him, wont he? Do it, Harry--look inside him!" Why was it so easy? Because his scar had een urning for hours, yearning to show him Voldemorts thoughts? He closed his eyes on her command, and at once, the screams and angs and all the discordant sounds of the attle were drowned until they ecame distant, as though he stood far, far away from them... He was standing in the middle of a desolate ut strangely familiar room, with peeling paper on the walls and all the windows oarded up except for one. The sounds of the assault on the castle were muffled and distant. The single unlocked window revealed distant ursts of light where the castle stood, ut inside the room was dark except for a solitary oil lamp. He was rolling his wand etween his figners, watching it, his thoughts on the room in the castle, the secret room only he had ever found, the room, like the chamer, that you had to e clever and cunning and inquisitive to discover...He was confident that the oy would not find the diadem...although Dumledores puppet had come much farther than he ever expected...too far... "My Lord," said a voice, desperate and cracked. He turned: there was Lucius Malfoy sitting in the darkest corner, ragged and still earing the marks of the punishment he had received after the oys last escape. One of his eyes remained closed and puffy. "My Lord...please...my son..." "If your son is dead, Lucius, it is not my fault. He did not come and join me, like the rest of the Slytherins. Perhaps he has
decided to efriend Harry Potter?" "No--never," whispered Malfoy. "You must hope not." "Arent--arent you afraid, my Lord that Potter might die at another hand ut yours?" asked Malfoy, his voice shaking. "Wouldnt it e...forgive me...more prudent to call off this attle, enter the castle, and seek him y-yourself?" "Do not pretend Lucius. You wish the attle to cease so that you can discover what has happened to your son. And i do not need to seek Potter. Before the night is out, Potter will have come to find me." Voldemort dropped his gaze once more to the wand in his fingers. It trouled him...and those things that trouled Lord Voldemort needed to e rearranged... "Go and fetch Snape." "Snape, m-my Lord?" "Snape. Now. I need him. There is a --service--I require from him. Go." Frightened, stumling a little through the gloom, Lucius left the room. Vodlemort continued to stand there, twirling the wand etween his fingers, staring at it. "It is the only way, Nagini," he whispered, and he looked around, and there was the great thick snake, now suspended in midair, twisting gracefully within the enchanted, protected space he had made for her, a starry, transparent sphere somewhere etween a glittering cage and a tank. With a gasp, Harry pulled ack and opened his yees at the same moment his ears were assaulted with the screeches and cries, the smashes and angs of attle. "Hes in the Shrieking Shack. The snakes with him, its got some sort of magical protection around it. Hes just sent Lucius Malfoy to find Snape." "voldemorts sitting in the shrieking Shack?" said Hermione, outraged. "Hes not--hes not even FIGHTING?" "He doesnt think he needs to fight," said Harry. "He thinks Im going to go to him." "But why?" "He knows Im after Horcruxes--hes keeping Nagini close eside him- -oviously Im going to have to go to him to get near the thing--" "Right," said Ron, squaring his shoulders. "So you cant go, thats what he wants, what hes expecting. You stay here and look after Hermione, and Ill go and get it--" Harry cut across Ron. "You two stay here, Ill go under the Cloak and Ill e ack as soon as I--" "No," said Hermione,, "it makes much more sense if I take the Cloak
and--" "Dont even think aout it," Ron snarled at her. efore Hermione could get farther than "Ron, Im just as capale -- " the tapestry at the top of the staircase on which they stood was ripped open. "POTTER!" Two masked Death Eaters stood there, ut even efore their wands were fully raised, Hermione shouted "Glisseo!" The stairs eneath their feet flatteneed into a chute and she, Harry, and Ron hurtled down it, unale to control their speed ut so fast that the Death Eaters Stunning Spells flew far over their heads. They shot through the concealing tapestry at the ottom and spun onto the floor, hitting the opposite wall. "Duro!" cried Hermione, pointing her wand at the tapestry, and there were two loud, sickening crunches as the tapestry turned to stone and the Death Eaters pursuing them crumpled against it. "Get ack!" shouted Ron, and he, Harry, and Hermione hurled themselves against a door as a herd of galloping desks thundered past, shepherdd y a sprinting Professor McGonagall. She appeared not to notice them. Her hair had come down and there was a gash on her cheek. As she turned the corner, they heard her scream, "CHARGE!" "Harry, you get the Cloak on," said Hermione. "Never mind us--" But he threw it over all three of them; large though they were he douted anyone would see their disemodied feet through the dust that clogged the air, the falling stone, the shimmer of spells. they ran down the next staircase and found themselves in a corridor full of duelers. The portraits on either side of the fighters were crammed with figures screaming advice and encouragement, while Death Eaters, oth masked and unmasked, dueled students and teachers. Dean had won himself a wand, for he was face-to-face with Dolohov, Parvati with Travers. Harry, ron and Hermione raised their wands at once, ready to strike, ut the duelers were weaving and darting so much that there was a strong likelihood of hurting on of their own side if they cast curses. Even as they stood raced, looking for the opportunity to act, there came a great "Wheeeeee!" and looking up, Harry saw Peeves zoomign over them, dropping Snargaluff pods down onto the Death Eaters, whose heads were suddenly engulfed in wriggling green tuers like fat worms. "ARGH!" A fistful of tuers had hit the Cloak over Rons head; the damp green roots were suspended improaly in midair as Ron tried to shake them loose. "Someones invisile there!" shouted a masked Death Eater, pointing. Dean made the most of the Death Eaters momentary distraction, knocking him out with a stunning Spell; Dolohov attempted to
retaliate, and Parvati shot a Body Bind Curse at him. "LETS GO!" Harry yelled, and he, Ron, and Hermione gathered the Cloak tightly around themselves and pelted, heads down, through the midst of the fighters, slipping a little in pools of Snargaluff juice, toward the top of the marle staircase into the entrance hall. "Im Draco Malfoy, Im Draco, Im on your side!" Draco was on the upper landing, pleading with anoter masked Death Eater. Harry Stunned the Death Eater as they passed. Malfoy looked around, eaming, for his savior, and Ron punched him from under the Cloak. Malfoy fell ackward on top of the Death Eater, his mouth leeding, utterly emused. "And thats the second time weve saved your life tonight, you two- faced astard!" Ron yelled. There were more duelers all over the stairs and in the hall. Death Eaters everywhere Harry looked: Yaxley, close to the front doors, in comat with Flitwick, a masked Death Eater dueling Kingsley right eside them. Students ran in every direction; some carrying or dragging injured friends. Harry directed a Stunnning Spell toward the masked Death Eater; it missed ut nearly hit Neville, who had emerged from nowhere randishing armfuls of Venomous Tentacula, which looped itself happily around the nearest Death Eater and egan reeling him in. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sped won the marle staircase: glass shattered on the left, and the Slytherin hourglass that had recorded House points spilled its emeralds everywhere, so that people slipped and staggered as they ran. Two odies fell from the alcony overhead as they reached the ground a gray lur that Harry took for an animal sped four-legged across the hall to sink its teeth into one of the fallen. "NO!" shrieked Hermione, and with a deafening last from her wand, Fenrir Greyack was thrown ackward from the feely struggling ody of Lavender Brown. He hit the marle anisters and struggled to return to his feet. Then, with a right white flash and a crack, a crystal all fell on top of his head, and he crumpled to the ground and did not move. "I have more!" shrieked Professor Trelawney from over the anisters. "More for any who want them! Here--" And with a move likea tennis serve, she heaved another enormous crystal sphere from her ag, waved her wand through the air, and caused the all to speed across the hall and smash through a window. At the same moment, the heavy wooden front doors urst open, and more of the gigantic spiders forced their way into the front hall. Screams of terror rent the air: the fighters scattered, Death Eaters and Hogwartians alike, and red and green jets of light flew
into the midst of the oncoming monsters, which shuddered and reared, more terrifying than ever. "How do we get out?" yelled ron over all the screaming, ut efore either Harry or Hermione could answer they were owled aside; Hagrid had come thundering down the stairs, randishing his flowery pink umrella. "Dont hurt em, dont hurt em!" he yelled. "HAGRID, NO!" Harry forgot everything else: he sprinted out from under the cloak, running ent doule to avoid the curses illuminating the whole hall. "HAGRID, COME BACK!" But he was not even halfway to Hagrid when he saw it happen: Hagrid vanished amongst the spiders, and with a great scurrying, a foul swarming movement, they retreated under the onslaught of spells, Hagrid uried in their midst. "HAGRID!" Harry heard someone calling his own name, whether friend or foe he did not care: He was springint down the front steps into the dark grounds, and the spiders were swarming away with their prey, and he could see nothing of Hagrid at all. "HAGRID!" He thought he could make out an enormous arm waving from the mdist of the spider swarm, ut as he made to chase after them, his way was impeded y a monumental foot, which swung down out of the darkness and made the ground on which he stood shudder. He looked up: A giant stood efore him, twenty feet high, its head ihidden in shadow, nothing ut its treelike, hairy shins illuminated y light from the castle doors. With one rutal, fluid movement, it smashed a massive fist through an upper window, and glass rained down upon Harryk, forcing him ack under the shelter of the doorway. "Oh my--!" shrieked Hermione, as she and ron caught up with Harry and gazed upward at the giant now trying to seize people through the window aove. "DONT!" ron yelled, graing Hermiones hand as she raised her wand. "Stun him and hell crush half the castle--" "HAGGER?" Grawp came lurching around the corner of the castle; only dnow did Harry realzie that Grawp was, indeed, an undersized giant. The gargantuan monster trying to crush people on the upper floors turned around and let out a rorar. The stone steps tremeled as he stomped toward his smaller kin, and Grawps lopsided mouth fell open, showing yellow, half rick-sized teeth; and then they launched themselves at each other with the savagery of lions. "RUN!" Harry roared; the ngiht was full of hideous yells and lows as the giants wrestled, and he seized Hermiones hand and tore down the steps into the grounds, Ron ringing up the rear. Harry had not lost hope of finding and saving Hagrid; he ran so fast that they
were halfway toward the forest efore they were rought up short again. The air around them had frozen: Harrys reath caught and solidified in his chest. Shapes moved out in the darkness, swirling figures of concentrated lackness, moving in a great wave towards the castles, their faces hooded and their reath rattling... ron and Hermione closed in eside him as the sounds of fighting ehind them grew suddenly muted, deadened, ecause a silence only dementors could ring was falling thickly through the night, and Fred was gone, and Hagrid was suurely dying or already dead... "come on, Harry!" said Hermiones voice from a very long way away. "Patronuses, Harry, come on!" he raised his wand, ut a dull hopelessness was spreading throughout him: How many more lay dead that he did not yet know aout? He felt as though his soul had already half left his ody.... "HARRY, COME ON!" screamed Hermione. A hundred dementors were advancing, gliding toward them, sucking their way closer to Harrys despair, which was like a promise of a feast... He saw Rons silver terrier urst into the air, flicker feely, and expire; he saw Hermiones otter twist in midair and fade, and his own wand tremled in his hand, and he almost welcomed the oncoming olivion, the promise of nothing, of no feeling... And then a silver hare, a oar, and fox soared past Harry, Ron, and Hermiones heads: the dementors fell ack efore the creatures approach. Three more people had arrived out of the darkness to stand eside them, their wands outstretched, continuing to cast Patronuses: Luna, Ernie, and Seamus. "Thats right," said Luna encouragingly, as if they were ack in the Room of Requirement and this was simply spell practice for the D.A., "Thats right, Harry...come on think of something happy..." something happy?" he said, his voice cracked. "Were all still here," she whispered, "we;re still fighting. Come on, now...." There was a silver spark, then a wavering light, and then, with the greatest effort it had ever cost him the stag urst from the end of Harrys wand. It cantered forward, and now the dementors scattered in earnest, and immediately the night was mild again, ut the sounds of the surrounding attle were loud in his ears. "Cant thank you enough," said ron shakily, turning to Luna, Ernie, and Seamus "you just saved--" With a roar and an earth-quaking tremor, another giant came lurching out of the darkness from the direction of the forest, randishing a clu taller than any of them. "RUN!" Harry shouted again, ut the others needed no telling; They all scattered, and not a second too soon, for the next moment the
creatures vast foot had fallen exactly where they had een standing. Harry looked round: ron and Hermione were following him, ut the other three had vanished ack into the attle. "Lets get out of range!" yelled Ron as the giant swung its clu again and its ellows echoed through the night, across the grounds wehere ursts of red and green light continued to illuminate the darkness. "The Whomping willow," said Harry, "go!" Somehow he walled it all up in his mind, crammed it into a small space into which he could not look now: thoughts of Fred and Hagrid, and his terror for all the people he loved, scattered in and outside the castle, must all wait, ecause they had to run, had to reach the snake and Voldemort, ecause that was, as Hermione said, the only way to end it-- He sprinted, half-elieving he could outdistance death itself, ignoring the jets of light flying in the darkness all around him, and the sound of hte lake crashing like the sea, and the creaking of the Foridden Forest though the night was windless; through grounds that seemed themselves to have risen in reellion, he ran faster than he had ever moved in his life, and it was he who saw the great tree first, the Willow that protected the secret at its roots with whiplike, slashing ranches. Panting and gasping, Harry slowed down, skirting the willows swiping ranches, peering through the darkness toward its tick trunk, trying to see the single knot in the ark of the old tree that would paralyze it. Ron and Hermione caught up, Hermione so out of reath that she could not speak. "How--howre we going to get in?" panted ron. "I can--see the palce- -if we jsut had--Crookshanks again--" "Crookshanks?" wheezed Hermione, ent doule, clutching her chest. "Are you a wizard, or what?" "Oh--right--yeah--" Ron looked around, then directed his wand at a twig on the ground and said "Winguardium Leviosa!" The twig flew up from the gruond, spun through the air as if caught y a gust of wind, then zoomed directly at the trunk through the Willows ominously swaying ranches. It jaed at a place near the roots, and at once, the writhing tree ecame still. "Perfect!" panted Hermione. "Wait." For one teetering second, while the crashes and ooms of the attle filled the air, Harry hesitated. Voldemort wanted him to do this, wanted him to come...Was he leading Ron and Hermione into a trap? But the reality seemed to close upon him, cruel and plain: the only way forward was to kill the snake, and the snake was where Voldemort was, and voldemort was at the end of this tunnel...
"Harry, were coming, just get in there!" said Ron, pushing him forward. Harry wriggled into the earthy passage hidden in the trees roots. It was a much tighter squeeze than it had een the last time they had entered it. The tunnel was low-ceilinged: they had had to doule up to move throuhgh it nearly four years previously; now there was nothing for it ut to crawl. Harry went first, his wand illuminated, expecting at any moment to meet arriers, ut none came. They moved in silence, Harrys gaze fixed upon the swinging eam of the wand held in his fist. At last, the tunnel egan to slope upward and Harry saw a sliver of light ahead. Hermione tugged at his ankle. "The Cloak!" she whispered. "Put the Cloak on!" He groped ehind him and she forced the undle of slippery cloth into his free hand. With difficulty he dragged it over himself, murmered, "Nox," extinguishing his wandlight, and continued on his hands and knees, as silently as possile, all his senses straining, expecting every second to e discovered, to hear a cold clear voice, see a flash of green light. and then he heard voices coming from the room directly ahead of them, only slightly muffled y the fact that the opening at the endo fht etuunnel had een locked up y what looked like an old crate. Hardly daring to reathe, Harry edged right up tot he opening and peered through a tiny gap left etween crate and wall. The room eyond was dimly lit, ut he could see Nagini, swirlign and coiling like a serpent underwater, safe in her enchanted, starry sphere, which floated unsupported in midair. He could see the edge of a tale, and a long-fingered white hand toying with a wand. Then Snape spoke, and Harrys heart lurched: Snape was inches away from where he crouched, hidden. "...my Lord, their resistance is crumling--" "--and it is doing so without your help," said Voldemort in his high, clear voice. "Skilled wizard though you are, Severus, I do not think you will make much difference now. We are almost there...almost." "Let me find the oy. Let me ring you Potter. I know I can find him, my Lord. Please." Snape strode past the gap, and Harry drew ack a little, keeping his eyes fixed upon Nagini, wondering whether there was any spell that might penetrate the protection surrounding her, ut he could not think of anything. One failed attempt, and he would give away his position... Voldemort stood up. Harry could see him now, see the red eyes, the flattened, serpentine face, the pallor of him gleaming slightly in the semidarkness.
"I have a prolem, Severus," said Voldemort softly. "My Lord?" said Snape. Voldemort raised the Elder Wand, holding it as delicately and precisely as a conductors aton. "Why doesnt it work for me, Severus?" In the silence Harry imagined he could hear the snake hissing slightly as it coiled and uncoiled--or was it Voldemorts siilant sigh lingering on the air? "My--my lord?" said Snape lankly. "I do not understand. You--you have performed extraordinary magic with that wand." "No," said Voldemort. "I have performed my usual magic. I am extraordinary, ut this wand...no. It has not revealed the wonders it has promised. I feel no difference etween this wand and the one I procured from Ollivander all those years ago." Voldemorts tone was musing, calm, ut Harrys scar had egun to thro and pulse: Pain was uilding in his forehead, and he could feel that controlled sense of fury uilding inside Voldemort. "No difference," said Voldemort again. Snape did not speak. Harry could not see his face. He wondered whether Snape sensed danger, was trying to find the right words to reassure his master. Voldemort started to move around the room: Harry lost sight of him for seconds as he prowled, speaking in that same measured voice, while the pain and fury mounted in Harry. "I have thought long and hard, Severus...do you know why I have called you ack from attle?" And for a moment Harry saw Snapes profile. His eyes were fixed upon the coiling snake in its enchanted cage. "No, my Lord, ut I eg you will let me return. Let me find Potter." "You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understands Potter as I do. He does not need finding. Potter will come to me. I knew his weakness you see, his one great flaw. He will hate watching the others struck down around him, knwoing that it is for him that it happens. He will want to stop it at any cost. He will come." "But my Lord, he might e killed accidentally y someone other than yourself--"\ "My instructions to the Death Eaters have een perfectly clear. Capture Potter. Kill his friends--the more, the etter--ut do not kill him. "But it is of you that I wished to speak, Severus, not Harry Potter. You have een very valuale to me. Very valuale." "My Lord knows I seek only to serve him. But--let me go and find the oy, my Lord. Let me ring him to you. I know I can--" "I have told you, no!" said Voldemort, and Harry caught the lgint of red in his eyes as he turned again, and the swishing of his cloak was like the slithering of a snake, and he felt Voldemorts
impatience in his urning scar. "My concern at the moment, Severus, is what will happen when I finally meet the oy!" "My Lord, there can e no question, surely--?" "--ut there is a question, Severus. There is." Voldemort halted, and Harry could see him plainly again as he slid the Elder Wand through his white fingers, staring at Snape. "Why did oth the wands I have used fail when directed at Harry Potter?" "I--I cannot answer that, my Lord." "Cant you?" The sta of rage felt like a spike driven through Harrys head: he forced his own fist into his mouth to stop himself from crying out in pain. He closed his eyes, and suddenly he was Voldemort, looking into Snapes pale face. "My wand of yew did everything of which I asked it, Severus, except to kill Harry Potter. Twice it failed. Ollivander told me under torture of the twin cores, told me to take anothers wand. I did so, ut Luciuss wand shattered upon meeting Potters." "I--I have no explanation, my Lord." Snape was not looking at Voldemort now. His dark eyes were still fixed upon the coiling serpent in its protective sphere. "I sought a third wand, Severus. the Elder Wand, the Wand of Destiny, the Deathstick. I took it from its previous master. I took it from the grfave of Alus Dumledore." And now Snape looked at Voldemort, and Snapes face was like a death mask. it was marle white and so still that when he spoke, it was a shock to see that anyone lived ehind the lank eyes. "My Lord--let me go to the oy--" "all this long night when I am on the rink of victory, I have sat here," said Voldemort, his voice arely louder than a whisper, "wondering, wondering, why the Elder Wand refuses to e what it ought to e, refuses to perform as legend says it must perform for its rightful owner...and I think I have the answer." Snape did not speak. "Perhaps you already know it? You are a clever man, after all, Severus. You have een a good and faithful servant, and I regret what must happen." "My Lord--" "The Elder Wand cannot serve me properly, Severus, ecause I am not its true master. The Elder Wand elongs to the wizard who killed its last owner. You killed Alus Dumledore. While you live, Severus, the Elder Wand cannot truly e mine." "My Lord!" Snape protested, raising his wand. "It cannot e any other way," said Voldemort. "I must master the wand, Severus. Master the wand, and I master Potter at last." And Voldemort swiped the air with the Elder Wand. It did nothing to
Sanpe, who for a split second seemed to think he had een reprieved: ut then Voldemorts intention ecame clear. The snakes cage was rolling through the air, and efore Snape could do anything more than yell, it had encased him, head and shoulders, and Voldemort spoke in Parseltongue. "Kill." There was a terrile scream. Harry saw Snapes face losing the little color it had left; it whitened as his lack eyes widened, as the snakes fangs pierced his neck, as he failed to push the enchanted cage off himself, as his knees gave way and he fell to the floor. "I regret it," said Voldemort coldly. He turned away; there was no sadness in him, no remorse. It was time to leave this shack and take charge, with a wand that would now do his full idding. He pointed it at the starry cage holding the snake, which drifted upward, off snape, who fell sideways onto the floor, lood gushing from the wounds in his neck. Voldemort swept from the room without a ackward glance, and the great serpent floated after him in its huge protective sphere. Back in the tunnel and his own mind, Harry opened his eyes; He had drawn lood iting down on his knuckles in an effort not to shout out. Now he was looking through the tiny crack etween crate and wall, watching a foot in a lack oot tremling on the floor. "Harry!" reathed Hermione ehind him, ut he had already pointed his wand at the crate locking his view. It lifted an inch into the air and drifted sideways silently. As quietly as he could, he pulled himself up into the room. He did not know why he was doing it, why he was approaching the dying man: he did not know what he felt as he saw Snapes white face, adn the fingers trying to staunch the loody wound at his neck. Harry took off the invisiility cloak and looked down upon the man he hated, whose widening lack eyes found Harry as he cried to speak. Harry ent over him, and Snape seized the front of his roes and pulled him close. A terrile rasping, gurgling noise issued from Snapes throat. "Take...it...Take...it..." Something more than lood was leaking from Snape. Silvery lue, neither gas nor liquid, it gushed form his mouth and his ears and his eyes, and Harry knew what it was, ut did not know what to do-- A flask, conjured from thin air, was thrust into his shaking hand y Hermione. Harry lfited the silvery sustance into it with his wand. When the falsk was full to the rim, and Snape looked as though there was no lood left in him, his grip on Harrys roes slackened. "Look...at....me..." he whispered. The green eyes found the lack, ut after a second, something in
the depths of the dark pari seemed to vanish, leaving them fixed, lank, and empty. The hand holding Harry thudded to the floor, and Snape moved no more.
Chapter Thirty-Three
The Prince’s Tale
Harry remained kneeling at Snape’s side, simply staring down at him, until quite suddenly a high, cold voice spoke so close to them that Harry jumped on his feet, the flask gripped tightly in his hands, thinking that Voldemort had reentered the room.
Voldemort’s voice revererated from the walls and floor, and Harry realized that he was talking to Hogwarts and to all the surrounding area, that the residents of Hogsmeade and all those still fighting in the castle would hear him as clearly as if he stood eside them, his reath on the ack of their necks, a deathlow away.
"You have fought," said the high, cold voice, "valiantly. Lord Voldemort knows how to value ravery.
"Yet you have sustained heavy losses. If you continue to resist me, you will all die, one y one. I do not wish this to happen. Every drop of magical lood spilled is a loss and a waste.
"Lord Voldemort is merciful. I command my forces to retreat immediately.
"You have one hour. Dispose of your dead with dignity. Treat your injured.
"I speak now, Harry Potter, directly to you. You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Foridden Forest. If, at the end of that hour, you have not come to me, have not given yourself up, then attle recommences. This time, I shall enter the fray myself, Harry Potter, and I shall find you, and I shall punish every last man, woman, and child who has tried to conceal you from me. One hour."
Both Ron and Hermione shook their heads frantically, looking at Harry.
"Don’t listen to him," said Ron.
"It’ll e all right," said Hermione wildly. "Let’s - let’s get ack to the castle, if he’s gone to the forest we’ll need to think of a new plan - "
She glanced at Snape’s ody, then hurried ack to the tunnel entrance. Ron followed her. Harry gathered up the Invisiility Cloak, then looked down at Snape. He did not know what to feel, except shock at the way Snape had een killed, and the reason for which it had een done...
They crawled ack through the tunnel, none of them talking, and Harry wondered whether Ron and Hermione could still hear Voldemort ringing in their heads as he could.
You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Foridden Forest...One hour...
Small undles seemed to litter the lawn at the front of the castle (?). It could only e an hour or so from dawn, yet it was pitch-lack. The three of them hurried toward the stone steps. A lone dog, the size of a small oat, lay aandoned in front of them. There was no other sign of Grawp or of his attacker.
The castle was unnaturally silent. There were no flashes of light now, no angs or screams or shouts. The flagstones of the deserted entrance hall were stained with lood. Emeralds were still scattered all over the floor, along with pieces of marle and splintered wood. Part of the anisters had een lown away.
"Where is everyone?" whispered Hermione.
Ron led the way to the Great Hall. Harry stopped in the doorway.
The House tales were gone and the room was crowded. The survivors stood in groups, their arms around each other’s necks. The injured were eing treated upon the raised platform y Madam Pomfrey and a group of helpers. Firenze was amongst the injured; his flank poured lood and he shook where he lay, unale to stand.
The dead lay in a row in the middle of the Hall. Harry could not see Fred’s ody, ecause his family surrounded him. George was kneeling at his head; Mrs. Weasley was lying across Fred’s chest, her ody shaking. Mr. Weasley stroking her hair while tears cascaded down his cheeks.
Without a word to Harry, Ron and Hermione walked away. Harry saw Hermione approach Ginny, whose face was swollen and lotchy, and hug her. Ron joined Bill, Fleur, and Percy, who flung an arm around Ron’s shoulders. As Ginny and Hermione moved closer to the rest of the family, Harry had a clear view of the odies lying next to Fred. Remus and Tonks, pale and still and peaceful-looking, apparently asleep eneath the dark, enchanted ceiling.
The Great Hall seemed to fly away, ecome smaller, shrink, as Harry reeled ackward from the doorway. He could not draw reath. He could not ear to look at any of the other odies, to see who else had died for him. He could not ear to join the Weasleys, could not look into their eyes, when if he had given himself up in the first place, Fred might never have died...
He turned away and ran up the marle staircase. Lupin, Tonks... He yearned not to feel... He wished he could rip out his heart, his innards, everything that was screaming inside him...
The castle was completely empty; even the ghosts seemed to have joined the mass mourning in the Great Hall. Harry ran without stopping, clutching the crystal flask of Snape’s last thoughts, and he did not slow down until he reached the stone gargoyle guarding the headmaster’s office.
"Password?"
"Dumledore!" said Harry without thinking, ecause it was he whom he yearned to see, and to his surprise the gargoyle slid aside revealing the spiral staircase ehind.
But when Harry urst into the circular office he found a change. The portraits that hung all around the walls were empty. Not a single headmaster or headmistress remained to see him; all, it seemed, had flitted away, charging through the paintings that lined the castle so that they could have a clear view of what was going on.
Harry glanced hopelessly at Dumledore’s deserted frame, which hung directly ehind the headmaster’s chair, then turned his ack on it. The stone Pensieve lay in the cainet where it had always een. Harry heaved it onto the desk and poured Snape’s memories into the wide asin with its runic markings around the edge. To escape into someone else’s head would e a lessed relief... Nothing that even Snape had left him could e worse than his own thoughts. The memories swirled, silver white and strange,
and without hesitating, with a feeling of reckless aandonment, as though this would assuage his torturing grief, Harry dived.
He fell headlong into sunlight, and his feet found warm ground. When he straightened up, he saw that he was in a nearly deserted playground. A single huge chimney dominated the distant skyline. Two girls were swinging ackward and forward, and a skinny oy was watching them from ehind a clump of ushes. His lack hair was overlong and his clothes were so mismatched that it looked delierate: too short jeans, a shay, overlarge coat that might have elonged to a grown man, an odd smocklike shirt.
Harry moved closer to the oy. Snape looked no more than nine or ten years old, sallow, small, stringy. There was undisguised greed in his thin face as he watched the younger of the two girls swinging higher and higher than her sister.
"Lily, don’t do it!" shrieked the elder of the two.
But the girl had let go of the swing at the very height of its arc and flown into the air, quite literally flown, launched herself skyward with a great shout of laughter, and instead of crumpling on the playground asphalt, she soared like a trapeze artist through the air, staying up far too long, landing far too lightly.
"Mummy told you not to!"
Petunia stopped her swing y dragging the heels of her sandals on the ground, making a crunching, grinding sound, then leapt up, hands on hips.
"Mummy said you weren’t allowed, Lily!"
"But I’m fine," said Lily, still giggling. "Tuney, look at this. Watch what I can do."
Petunia glanced around. The playground was deserted apart from themselves and, though the girls did not know it, Snape. Lily had picked up a fallen flower from the ush ehind which Snape lurked. Petunia advanced, evidently torn etween curiosity and disapproval. Lily waited until Petunia was near enough to have a clear view, then held out her palm. The flower sat there, opening and closing its petals, like some izarre, many-lipped oyster.
"Stop it!" shrieked Petunia.
"It’s not hurting you," said Lily, ut she closed her hand on the lossom and threw it ack to the ground.
"It’s not right," said Petunia, ut her eyes had followed the flower’s flight to the ground and lingered upon it. "How do you do it?" she added, and there was definite longing in her voice.
"It’s ovious, isn’t it?" Snape could no longer contain himself, ut had jumped out from ehind the ushes. Petunia shrieked and ran ackward toward the swings, ut Lily, though clearly startled, remained where she was. Snape seemed to regret his appearance. A dull flush of color mounted the sallow cheeks as he looked at Lily.
"What’s ovious?" asked Lily.
Snape had an air of nervous excitement. With a glance at the distant Petunia, now hovering eside the swings, he lowered his voice and said, "I know what you are."
"What do you mean?"
"You’re...you’re a witch," whispered Snape.
She looked affronted.
"That’s not a very nice thing to say to someody!"
She turned, nose in the air, and marched off toward her sister.
"No!" said Snape. He was highly colored now, and Harry wondered why he did not take off the ridiculously large coat, unless it was ecause he did not want to reveal the smock eneath it. He flapped after the girls, looking ludicrously atlike, like his older self.
The sisters considered him, united in disapproval, oth holding on to one of the swing poles, as though it was the safe place in tag.
"You are," said Snape to Lily. "You are a witch. I’ve een watching you for a while. But there’s nothing wrong with that. My mum’s one, and I’m a wizard."
Petunia’s laugh was like cold water.
"Wizard!" she shrieked, her courage returned now that she had recovered from the shock of his unexpected appearance. "I know who you are. You’re that Snape oy! They live down Spinner’s End y the river," she told Lily, and it was evident from her tone that she considered the address a poor recommendation. "Why have you een spying on us?"
"Haven’t een spying," said Snape, hot and uncomfortale and dirty-haired in the right sunlight. "Wouldn’t spy on you, anyway," he added spitefully, "you’re a Muggle."
Though Petunia evidently did not understand the word, she could hardly mistake the tone.
"Lily, come on, we’re leaving!" she said shrilly. Lily oeyed her sister at once, glaring at Snape as she left. He stood watching them as they marched through the playground gate, and Harry, the only one left to oserve him, recognized Snape’s itter disappointment, and understood that Snape had een planning this moment for a while, and that it had all gone wrong...
The scene dissolved, and efore Harry knew it, re-formed around him. He was now in a small thicket of trees. He could see a sunlit river glittering through their trunks. The shadows cast y the trees made a asin of cool green shade. Two children sat facing each other, cross-legged on the ground. Snape had removed his coat now; his odd smock looked less pecular in the half light.
"...and the Ministry can punish you if you do magic outside school, you get letters."
"But I have done magic outside school!"
"We’re all right. We haven’t got wands yet. They let you off when you’re a kid and you can’t help it. But once you’re eleven," he nodded importantly, "and they start training you, then you’ve got to go careful."
There was a little silence. Lily had picked up a fallen twig and twirled it in the air, and Harry knew that she was imagining sparks trailing from it. Then she dropped the twig, leaned in toward the oy, and said, "It is real, isn’t it? It’s not a joke? Petunia says you’re lying to me. Petunia says there isn’t a Hogwarts. It is real, isn’t it?"
"It’s real for us," said Snape. "Not for her. But we’ll get the letter, you and me."
"Really?" whispered Lily.
"Definitely," said Snape, and even with his poorly cut hair and his odd clothes, he struck an oddly impressive figure sprawled in front of her, rimful of confidence in his destiny.
"And will it really come y owl?" Lily whispered.
"Normally," said Snape. "But you’re Muggle-orn, so someone from the school will have to come and explain to your parents."
"Does it make a difference, eing Muggle-orn?"
Snape hesitated. His lack eyes, eager in the greenish gloom, moved over the pale face, the dark red hair.
"No," he said. "It doesn’t make any difference."
"Good," said Lily, relaxing. It was clear that she had een worrying.
"You’ve got loads of magic," said Snape. "I saw that. All the time I was watching you..."
His voice trailed away; she was not listening, ut had stretched out on the leafy ground and was looking up at the canopy of leaves overhead. He watched her as greedily as he had watched her in the playground.
"How are things at your house?" Lily asked.
A little crease appeared etween his eyes.
"Fine," he said.
"They’re not arguing anymore?"
"Oh yes, they’re arguing," said Snape. He picked up a fistful of leaves and egan tearing them apart, apparently unaware of what he was doing. "But it won’t e that long and I’ll e gone."
"Doesn’t your dad like magic?"
"He doesn’t like anything, much," said Snape.
"Severus?"
A little smile twisted Snape’s mouth when she said his name.
"Yeah?"
"Tell me aout the dementors again."
"What d’you want to know aout them for?"
"If I use magic outside school - "
"They wouldn’t give you to the dementors for that! Dementors are for people who do really ad stuff. They guard the wizard prison, Azkaan. You’re not going to end up in Azkaan, you’re too - "
He turned red again and shredded more leaves. Then a small rustling noise ehind Harry made him turn: Petunia, hiding ehind a tree, had lost her footing.
"Tuney!" said Lily, surprise and welcome in her voice, ut Snape had jumped to his feet.
"Who’s spying now?" he shouted. "What d’you want?"
Petunia was reathless, alarmed at eing caught. Harry could see her struggling for something hurtful to say.
"What is that you’re wearing, anyway?" she said, pointing at Snape’s chest. "Your mum’s louse?"
There was a crack. A ranch over Petunia’s head had fallen. Lily screamed. The ranch caught Petunia on the shoulder, and she staggered ackward and urst into tears.
"Tuney!"
But Petunia was running away. Lily rounded on Snape.
"Did you make that happen?"
"No." He looked oth defiant and scared.
"You did!" She was acking away from him. "You did! You hurt her!"
"No - no, I didn’t!"
But the lie did not convince Lily. After one last urning look, she ran from the little thicket, off after her sister, and Snape looked miserale and confused...
And the scene re-formed. Harry looked around. He was on platform nine and three quarters, and Snape stood eside him, slightly hunched, next to a thin, sallow-faced, sour-looking woman who greatly resemled him. Snape was staring at a family of four a short distance away. The two girls stood a little apart from their parents. Lily seemed to e pleading with her sister. Harry moved closer to listen.
"...I’m sorry, Tuney, I’m sorry! Listen - " She caught her sister’s hand and held tight to it, even though Petunia tried to pull it away. "Maye once I’m there - no, listen, Tuney! Maye once I’m there, I’ll e ale to go to Professor Dumledore and persuade him to change his mind!"
"I don’t - want - to - go!" said Petunia, and she dragged her hand ack out of her sister’s grasp. "You think I want to go to some stupid castle and learn to e a - a..."
Her pale eyes roved over the platform, over the cats mewling in their owners’ arms, over the owls, fluttering and hooting at each other in cages, over the students, some already in their long lack roes, loading trunks onto the scarlet steam engine or else greeting one another with glad cries after a summer apart.
" - you think I want to e a - a freak?"
Lily’s eyes filled with tears as Petunia succeeded in tugging her hand away.
"I’m not a freak," said Lily. "That’s a horrile thing to say."
"That’s where you’re going," said Petunia with relish. "A special school for freaks. You and that Snape oy...weirdos, that’s what you two are. It’s good you’re eing separated from normal people. It’s for our safety."
Lily glanced toward her parents, who were looking around the platform with an air of wholehearted enjoyment, drinking in the scene. Then she looked ack at her sister, and her voice was low and fierce.
"You didn’t think it was such a freak’s school when you wrote to the headmaster and egged him to take you."
Petunia turned scarlet.
"Beg? I didn’t eg!"
"I saw his reply. It was very kind."
"You shouldn’t have read - " whispered Petunia, "that was my private - how could you - ?"
Lily gave herself away y half-glancing toward where Snape stood neary. Petunia gasped.
"That oy found it! You and that oy have een sneaking in my room!"
"No - not sneaking - " Now Lily was on the defensive. "Severus saw the envelope, and he couldn’t elieve a Muggle could have contacted Hogwarts, that’s all! He says there must e wizards working undercover in the postal service who take care of - "
"Apparently wizards poke their noses in everywhere!" said Petunia, now as pale as she had een flushed. "Freak!" she spat at her sister, and she flounced off to where her parents stood...
The scene dissolved again. Snape was hurrying along the corridor of the Hogwarts Express as it clattered through the countryside. He had already changed into his school roes, had perhaps taken the first opportunity to take off his dreadful Muggle clothes. At last he stopped, outside a compartment in which a group of rowdy oys were
talking. Hunched in a corner seat eside the window was Lily, her face pressed against the windowpane.
Snape slid open the compartment door and sat down opposite Lily. She glanced at him and then looked ack out of the window. She had een crying.
"I don’t want to talk to you," she said in a constricted voice.
"Why not?"
"Tuney h-hates me. Because we saw that letter from Dumledore."
"So what?"
She threw him a look of deep dislike.
"So she’s my sister!"
"She’s only a - " He caught himself quickly; Lily, too usy trying to wipe her eyes without eing noticed, did not hear him.
"But we’re going!" he said, unale to suppress the exhilaration in his voice. "This is it! We’re off to Hogwarts!"
She nodded, mopping her eyes, ut in spite of herself, she half smiled.
"You’d etter e in Slytherin," said Snape, encouraged that she had rightened a little.
"Slytherin?"
One of the oys sharing the compartment, who had shown no interest at all in Lily or Snape until that point, looked around at the word, and Harry, whose attention had een focused entirely on the two eside the window, saw his father: slight, lack-haired like Snape, ut with that indefinale air of having een well-cared-for, even adored, that Snape so conspicuously lacked.
"Who wants to e in Slytherin? I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?" James asked the oy lounging on the seats opposite him, and with a jolt, Harry realized that it was Sirius. Sirius did not smile.
"My whole family have een in Slytherin," he said.
"Blimey," said James, "and I thought you seemed all right!"
Sirius grinned.
"Maye I’ll reak the tradition. Where are you heading, if you’ve got the choice?"
James lifted an invisile sword.
"‘Gryffindor, where dwell the rave at heart!’ Like my dad."
Snape made a small, disparaging noise. James turned on him.
"Got a prolem with that?"
"No," said Snape, though his slight sneer said otherwise. "If you’d rather e rawny than rainy - "
"Where’re you hoping to go, seeing as you’re neither?" interjected Sirius.
James roared with laughter. Lily sat up, rather flushed, and looked from James to Sirius in dislike.
"Come on, Severus, let’s find another compartment."
"Oooooo..."
James and Sirius imitated her lofty voice; James tried to trip Snape as he passed.
"See ya, Snivellus!" a voice called, as the compartment door slammed...
And the scene dissolved once more...
Harry was standing right ehind Snape as they faced the candlelit House tales, lined with rapt faces. Then Professor McGonagall said, "Evans, Lily!"
He watched his mother walk forward on tremling legs and sit down upon the rickety stool. Professor McGonagall dropped the Sorting Hat onto her head, and arely a second after it had touched the dark red hair, the hat cried, "Gryffindor!"
Harry heard Snape let out a tiny groan. Lily took off the hat, handed it ack to Professor McGonagall, then hurried toward the cheering Gryffindors, ut as she went she glanced ack at Snape, and there was a sad little smile on her face. Harry saw Sirius move up the ench to make room for her. She took one look at him, seemed to recognize him from the train, folded her arms, and firmly turned her ack on him.
The roll call continued. Harry watched Lupin, Pettigrew, and his father join Lily and Sirius at the Gryffindor tale. At last, when only a dozen students remained to e sorted, Professor McGonagall called Snape.
Harry walked with him to the stool, watched him place the hat upon his head. "Slytherin!" cried the Sorting Hat.
And Severus Snape moved off to the other side of the Hall, away from Lily, to where the Slytherins were cheering him, to where Lucius Malfoy, a prefect adge gleaming upon his chest, patted Snape on the ack as he sat down eside him...
And the scene changed...
Lily and Snape were walking across the castle courtyard, evidently arguing. Harry hurried to catch up with them, to listen in. As he reached them, he realized how much taller they oth were. A few years seemed to have passed since their Sorting.
"...thought we were supposed to e friends?" Snape was saying, "Best friends?"
"We are, Sev, ut I don’t like some of the people you’re hanging round with! I’m sorry, ut I detest Avery and Mulcier! Mulcier! What do you see in him, Sev, he’s creepy! D’you know what he tried to do to Mary Macdonald the other day?"
Lily had reached a pillar and leaned against it, looking up into the thin, sallow face.
"That was nothing," said Snape. "It was a laugh, that’s all - "
"It was Dark Magic, and if you think that’s funny - "
"What aout the stuff Potter and his mates get up to?" demanded Snape. His color rose again as he said it, unale, it seemed, to hold in his resentment.
"What’s Potter got to do with anything?" said Lily.
"They sneak out at night. There’s something weird aout that Lupin. Where does he keep going?"
"He’s ill," said Lily. "They say he’s ill - "
"Every month at the full moon?" said Snape.
"I know your theory," said Lily, and she sounded cold. "Why are you so osessed with them anyway? Why do you care what they’re doing at night?"
"I’m just trying to show you they’re not as wonderful as everyone seems to think they are."
The intensity of his gaze made her lush.
"They don’t use Dark Magic, though." She dropped her voice. "And you’re eing really ungrateful. I heard what happened the other night. You went sneaking down that tunnel y the Whomping Willow, and James Potter saved you from whatever’s down there - "
Snape’s whole face contorted and he spluttered, "Saved? Saved? You think he was playing the hero? He was saving his neck and his friends’ too! You’re not going to - I won’t let you - "
"Let me? Let me?"
Lily’s right green eyes were slits. Snape acktracked at once.
"I didn’t m ean - I just don’t want to see you made a fool of - He fancies you, James Potter fancies you!" The words seemed wrenched from him against his will. "And he’s not...everyone thinks...ig Quidditch hero - " Snape’s itterness and dislike were rendering him incoherent, and Lily’s eyerows were traveling farther and farther up her forehead.
"I know James Potter’s an arrogant toerag," she said, cutting across Snape. "I don’t need you to tell me that. But Mulcier’s and Avery’s idea of humor is just evil. Evil, Sev. I don’t understand how you can e friends with them."
Harry douted that Snape had even heard her strictures on Mulcier and Avery. The moment she had insulted James Potter, his whole ody had relaxed, and as they walked away there was a new spring in Snape’s step...
And the scene dissolved...
Harry watched again as Snape left the Great Hall after sitting his O.W.L. in Defense Against the Dark Arts, watched as he wandered away from the castle and strayed inadvertently close to the place eneath the eech tree where James, Sirius, Lupin, and Pettigrew sat together. But Harry kept his distance this time, ecause he knew what happened after James had hoisted Severus into the air and taunted him; he knew what had een done and said, and it gave him no pleasure to hear it again... He watched as Lily joined the group and went to Snape’s defense. Distantly he heard Snape shout at her in his humiliation and his fury, the unforgivale word: "Mudlood."
The scene changed...
"I’m sorry."
"I’m not interested."
"I’m sorry!"
"Save your reath"
It was nighttime. Lily, who was wearing a dressing gown, stood with her arms folded in front of the portrait of the Fat Lady, at the entrance to Gryffindor Tower.
"I only came out ecause Mary told me you were threatening to sleep here."
"I was. I would have done. I never meant to call you Mudlood, it just - "
"Slipped out?" There was no pity in Lily’s voice. "It’s too late. I’ve made excuses for you for years. None of my friends can understand why I even talk to you. You and your precious little Death Eater friends - you see, you don’t even deny it! You don’t even deny that’s what you’re all aiming to e! You can’t wait to join You-Know-Who, can you?"
He opened his mouth, ut closed it without speaking.
"I can’t pretend anymore. You’ve chosen your way, I’ve chosen mine."
"No - listen, I didn’t mean - "
" - to call me Mudlood? But you call everyone of my irth Mudlood, Severus. Why should I e any different?"
He struggled on the verge of speech, ut with a contemptuous look she turned and climed ack through the portrait hole...
The corridor dissolved, and the scene took a little longer to reform: Harry seemed to fly through shifting shapes and colors until his surroundings solidified again and he stood on a hilltop, forlorn and cold in the darkness, the wind whistling through the ranches of a few leafless trees. The adult Snape was panting, turning on the spot, his wand gripped tightly in his hand, waiting for something or for someone... His fear infected Harry too, even though he knew that he could not e harmed, and he looked over his shoulder, wondering what it was that Snape was waiting for -
Then a linding, jagged jet of white light flew through the air. Harry thought of lightning, ut Snape had dropped to his knees and his wand had flown out of his hand.
"Don’t kill me!"
"That was not my intention."
Any sound of Dumledore Apparating had een drowned y the sound of the wind in the ranches. He stood efore Snape with his roes whipping around him, and his face was illuminated from elow in the light cast y his wand.
"Well, Severus? What message does Lord Voldemort have for me?"
"No - no message - I’m here on my own account!"
Snape was wringing his hands. He looked a little mad, with his straggling lack hair flying around him.
"I - I come with a warning - no, a request - please - "
Dumledore flicked his wand. Though leaves and ranches still flew through the night air around them, silence fell on the spot where he and Snape faced each other.
"What request could a Death Eater make of me?"
"The - the prophecy...the prediction...Trelawney..."
"Ah, yes," said Dumledore. "How much did you relay to Lord Voldemort?"
"Everything - everything I heard!" said Snape. "That is why - it is for that reason - he thinks it means Lily Evans!"
"The prophecy did not refer to a woman," said Dumledore. "It spoke of a oy orn at the end of July - "
"You know what I mean! He thinks it means her son, he is going to hunt her down - kill them all - "
"If she means so much to you," said Dumledore, "surely Lord Voldemort will spare her? Could you not ask for mercy for the mother, in exchange for the son?"
"I have - I have asked him - "
"You disgust me," said Dumledore, and Harry had never heard so much contempt in his voice. Snape seemed to shrink a little, "You do not care, then, aout the deaths of her husand and child? They can die, as long as you have what you want?"
Snape said nothing, ut merely looked up at Dumledore.
"Hide them all, then," he croaked. "Keep her - them - safe. Please."
"And what will you give me in return, Severus?"
"In - in return?" Snape gaped at Dumledore, and Harry expected him to protest, ut after a long moment he said, "Anything."
The hilltop faded, and Harry stood in Dumledore’s office, and something was making a terrile sound, like a wounded animal. Snape was slumped forward in a chair and Dumledore was standing over him, looking grim. After a moment or two, Snape raised his face, and he looked like a man who had lived a hundred years of misery since leaving the wild hilltop.
"I thought...you were going...to keep her...safe..."
"She and James put their faith in the wrong person," said Dumledore. "Rather like you, Severus. Weren’t you hoping that Lord Voldemort would spare her?"
Snape’s reathing was shallow.
"Her oy survives," said Dumledore.
With a tiny jerk of the head, Snape seemed to flick off an irksome fly.
"Her son lives. He has her eyes, precisely her eyes. You rememer the shape and color of Lily Evans’s eyes, I am sure?"
"DON’T!" ellowed Snape. "Gone...dead..."
"Is this remorse, Severus?"
"I wish...I wish I were dead..."
"And what use would that e to anyone?" said Dumledore coldly. "If you loved Lily Evans, if you truly loved her, then your way forward is clear."
Snape seemed to peer through a haze of pain, and Dumledore’s words appeared to take a long time to reach him.
"What - what do you mean?"
"You know how and why she died. Make sure it was not in vain. Help me protect Lily’s son."
"He does not need protection. The Dark Lord has gone - "
"The Dark Lord will return, and Harry Potter will e in terrile danger when he does."
There was a long pause, and slowly Snape regained control of himself, mastered his own reathing. At last he said, "Very well. Very well. But never - never tell, Dumledore! This must e etween us! Swear it! I cannot ear...especially Potter’s son...I want your word!"
"My word, Severus, that I shall never reveal the est of you?" Dumledore sighed, looking down into Snape’s ferocious, anguished face. "If you insist..."
The office dissolved ut re-formed instantly. Snape was pacing up and down in front of Dumledore.
" - mediocre, arrogant as his father, a determined rule-reaker, delighted to find himself famous, attention-seeking and impertinent - "
"You see what you expect to see, Severus," said Dumledore, without raising his eyes from a copy of Transfiguration Today. "Other teachers report that the oy is modest, likale, and reasonaly talented. Personally, I find him an engaging child."
Dumledore turned a page, and said, without looking up, "Keep an eye on Quirrell, won’t you?"
A whirl of color, and now everything darkened, and Snape and Dumledore stood a little apart in the entrance hall, while the last stragglers from the Yule Ball passed them on their way to ed.
"Well?" murmured Dumledore.
"Karkaroff’s Mark is ecoming darker too. He is panicking, he fears retriution; you know how much help he gave the Ministry after the Dark Lord fell." Snape looked sideways at Dumledore’s crooked-nosed profile. "Karkaroff intends to flee if the Mark urns."
"Does he?" said Dumledore softly, as Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies came giggling in from the grounds. "And are you tempted to join him?"
"No," said Snape, his lack eyes on Fleur’s and Roger’s retreating figures. "I am not such a coward."
"No," agreed Dumledore. "You are a raver man y far than Igor Karkaroff. You know, I sometimes think we Sort too soon..."
He walked away, leaving Snape looking stricken...
And now Harry stood in the headmaster’s office yet again. It was nighttime, and Dumledore sagged sideways in the thronelike chair ehind the desk, apparently semiconscious. His right hand dangled over the side, lackened and urned. Snape was muttering incantations, pointing his wand at the wrist of the hand, while with his left hand he tipped a golet full of thick golden potion down Dumledore’s throat. After a moment or two, Dumledore’s eyelids fluttered and opened.
"Why," said Snape, without preamle, "why did you put on that ring? It carries a curse, surely you realized that. Why even touch it?"
Marvolo Gaunt’s ring lay on the desk efore Dumledore. It was cracked; the sword of Gryffindor lay eside it.
Dumledore grimaced.
"I...was a fool. Sorely tempted..."
"Tempted y what?"
Dumledore did not answer.
"It is a miracle you managed to return here!" Snape sounded furious. "That ring carried a curse of extraordinary power, to contain it is all we can hope for; I have trapped the curse in one hand for the time eing - "
Dumledore raised his lackened, useless hand, and examined it with the expression of one eing shown an interesting curio.
"You have done very well, Severus. How long do you think I have?"
Dumledore’s tone was conversational; he might have een asking for a weather forecast. Snape hesitated, and then said, "I cannot tell. Maye a year. There is no halting such a spell forever. It will spread eventually, it is the sort of curse that strengthens over time."
Dumledore smiled. The news that he had less than a year to live seemed a matter of little or no concern to him.
"I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, Severus."
"If you had only summoned me a little earlier, I might have een ale to do more, uy you more time!" said Snape furiously. He looked down at the roken ring and the sword. "Did you think that reaking the ring would reak the curse?"
"Something like that...I was delirious, no dout..." said Dumledore. With an effort he straightened himself in his chair. "Well, really, this makes matters much more straightforward."
Snape looked utterly perplexed. Dumledore smiled.
"I refer to the plan Lord Voldemort is revolving around me. His plan to have the poor Malfoy oy murder me."
Snape sat down in the chair Harry had so often occupied, across the desk from Dumledore. Harry could tell that he wanted to say more on the suject of Dumledore’s cursed hand, ut the other held it up in polite refusal to discuss the matter further. Scowling, Snape said, "The Dark Lord does not expect Draco to succeed. This is merely
punishment for Lucius’s recent failures. Slow torture for Draco’s parents, while they watch him fail and pay the price."
"In short, the oy has had a death sentence pronounced upon him as surely as I have," said Dumledore. "Now, I should have thought the natural successor to the jo, once Draco fails, is yourself?"
There was a short pause.
"That, I think, is the Dark Lord’s plan."
"Lord Voldemort foresees a moment in the near future when he will not need a spy at Hogwarts?"
"He elieves the school will soon e in his grasp, yes."
"And if it does fall into his grasp," said Dumledore, almost, it seemed, as an aside, "I have your word that you will do all in your power to protect the students at Hogwarts?"
Snape gave a stiff nod.
"Good. Now then. Your first priority will e to discover what Draco is up to. A frightened teenage oy is a danger to others as well as to himself. Offer him help and guidance, he ought to accept, he likes you - "
" - much less since his father has lost favor. Draco lames me, he thinks I have usurped Lucius’s position."
"All the same, try. I am concerned less for myself than for accidental victims of whatever schemes might occur to the oy. Ultimately, of course, there is only one thing to e done if we are to save him from Lord Voldemort’s wrath."
Snape raised his eyerows and his tone was sardonic as he asked, "Are you intending to let him kill you?"
"Certainly not. You must kill me."
There was a long silence, roken only y an odd clicking noise. Fawkes the phoenix was gnawing a it of cuttleone.
"Would you like me to do it now?" asked Snape, his voice heavy with irony. "Or would you like a few moments to compose an epitaph?"
"Oh, not quite yet," said Dumledore, smiling. "I daresay the moment will present itself in due course. Given what has happened tonight," he indicated his withered hand, "we can e sure that it will happen within a year."
"If you don’t mind dying," said Snape roughly, "why not let Draco do it?"
"That oy’s soul is not yet so damaged," said Dumledore. "I would not have it ripped apart on my account."
"And my soul, Dumledore? Mine?"
"You alone know whether it will harm your soul to help an old man avoid pain and humiliation," said Dumledore. "I ask this one great favor of you, Severus, ecause death is coming for me as surely as the Chudley Cannons will finish ottom of this year’s league. I confess I should prefer a quick, painless exit to the protracted and messy affair it will e if, for instance, Greyack is involved - I hear Voldemort has recruited him? Or dear Bellatrix, who likes to play with her food efore she eats it."
His tone was light, ut his lue eyes pierced Snape as they had frequently pierced Harry, as though the soul they discussed was visile to him. At last Snape gave another curt nod.
Dumledore seemed satisfied.
"Thank you, Severus..."
The office disappeared, and now Snape and Dumledore were strolling together in the deserted castle grounds y twilight.
"What are you doing with Potter, all these evenings you are closeted together?" Snape asked aruptly.
Dumledore looked weary.
"Why? You aren’t trying to give him more detentions, Severus? The oy will soon have spent more time in detention than out."
"He is his father over again - "
"In looks, perhaps, ut his deepest nature is much more like his mother’s. I spend time with Harry ecause I have things to discuss with him, information I must give him efore it is too late."
"Information," repeated Snape. "You trust him...you do not trust me."
"It is not a question of trust. I have, as we oth know, limited time. It is essential that I give the oy enough information for him to do what he needs to do."
"And why may I not have the same information?"
"I prefer not to put all of my secrets in one asket, particularly not a asket that spends so much time dangling on the arm of Lord Voldemort."
"Which I do on your orders!"
"And you do it extremely well. Do not think that I underestimate the constant danger in which you place yourself, Severus. To give Voldemort what appears to e valuale information while withholding the essentials is a jo I would entrust to noody ut you."
"Yet you confide much more in a oy who is incapale of Occlumency, whose magic is mediocre, and who has a direct connection into the Dark Lord’s mind!"
"Voldemort fears that connection," said Dumledore. "Not so long ago he had one small taste of what truly sharing Harry’s mind means to him. It was pain such as he has never experienced. He will not try to possess Harry again, I am sure of it. Not in that way."
"I don’t understand."
"Lord Voldemort’s soul, maimed as it is, cannot ear close contact with a soul like Harry’s. Like a tongue on frozen steel, like flesh in flame - "
"Souls? We were talking of minds!"
"In the case of Harry and Lord Voldemort, to speak of one is to speak of the other."
Dumledore glanced around to make sure that they were alone. They were close y the Foridden Forest now, ut there was no sign of anyone near them.
"After you have killed me, Severus - "
"You refuse to tell me everything, yet you expect that small service of me!" snarled Snape, and real anger flared in the thin face now. "You take a great deal for granted, Dumledore! Perhaps I have changed my mind!"
"You gave me your word, Severus. And while we are talking aout services you owe me, I thought you agreed to keep a close eye on our young Slytherin friend?"
Snape looked angry, mutinous. Dumledore sighed.
"Come to my office tonight, Severus, at eleven, and you shall not complain that I have no confidence in you..."
They were ack in Dumledore’s office, the windows dark, and Fawkes sat silent as Snape sat quite still, as Dumledore walked around him, talking.
"Harry must not know, not until the last moment, not until it is necessary, otherwise how could he have the strength to do what must e done?"
"But what must he do?"
"That is etween Harry and me. Now listen closely, Severus. There will come a time - after my death - do not argue, do not interrupt! There will come a time when Lord Voldemort will seem to fear for the life of his snake."
"For Nagini?" Snape looked astonished.
"Precisely. If there comes a time when Lord Voldemort stops sending that snake forth to do his idding, ut keeps it safe eside him under magical protection, then, I think, it will e safe to tell Harry."
"Tell him what?"
Dumledore took a deep reath and closed his eyes.
"Tell him that on the night Lord Voldemort tried to kill him, when Lily cast her own life etween them as a shield, the Killing Curse reounded upon Lord Voldemort, and a fragment of Voldemort’s soul was lasted apart from the whole, and latched itself onto the only living soul left in that collapsed uilding. Part of Lord Voldemort lives inside Harry, and it is that which gives him the power of speech with snakes, and a connection with Lord Voldemort’s mind that he has never understood. And while that fragment of soul, unmissed y Voldemort, remains attached to and protected y Harry, Lord Voldemort cannot die."
Harry seemed to e watching the two men from one end of a long tunnel, they were so far away from him, their voices echoing strangely in his ears.
"So the oy...the oy must die?" asked Snape quite calmly.
"And Voldemort himself must do it, Severus. That is essential."
Another long silence. Then Snape said, "I thought...all those years...that we were protecting him for her. For Lily."
"We have protected him ecause it has een essential to teach him, to raise him, to let him try his strength," said Dumledore, his eyes still tight shut. "Meanwhile, the connection etween them grows ever stronger, a parasitic growth. Sometimes I have thought he suspects it himself. If I know him, he will have arranged matters so that when he does set out to meet his death, it will truly mean the end of Voldemort."
Dumledore opened his eyes. Snape looked horrified.
"You have kept him alive so that he can die at the right moment?"
"Don’t e shocked, Severus. How many men and women have you watched die?"
"Lately, only those whom I could not save," said Snape. He stood up. "You have used me."
"Meaning?"
"I have spied for you and lied for you, put myself in mortal danger for you. Everything was supposed to e to keep Lily Potter’s son safe. Now you tell me you have een raising him like a pig for slaughter - "
"But this is touching, Severus," said Dumledore seriously. "Have you grown to care for the oy, after all?"
"For him?" shouted Snape. "Expecto Patronum!"
From the tip of his wand urst the silver doe. She landed on the office floor, ounded once across the office, and soared out of the window. Dumledore watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow faded he turned ack to Snape, and his eyes were full of tears.
"After all this time?"
"Always," said Snape.
And the scene shifted. Now, Harry saw Snape talking to the portrait of Dumledore ehind his desk.
"You will have to give Voldemort the correct date of Harry’s departure from his aunt and uncle’s," said Dumledore. "Not to do so will raise suspicion, when Voldemort elieves you so well informed. However, you must plant the idea of decoys; that, I think, ought to ensure Harry’s safety. Try Confunding Mundungus Fletcher. And Severus, if you are forced to take part in the chase, e sure to act your part convincingly...I am counting upon you to remain in Lord Voldemort’s good ooks as long as possile, or Hogwarts will e left to the mercy of the Carrows..."
Now Snape was head to head with Mundungus in an unfamiliar tavern, Mundungus’s face looking curiously lank, Snape frowning in concentration.
"You will suggest to the Order of the Phoenix," Snape murmured, "that they use decoys. Polyjuice Potion. Identical Potters. It’s the only thing that might work. You will forget that I have suggested this. You will present it as your own idea. You understand?"
"I understand," murmured Mundungus, his eyes unfocused...
Now Harry was flying alongside Snape on a roomstick through a clear dark night: He was accompanied y other hodded Death Eaters, and ahead were Lupin and a Harry who was really George... A Death Eater moved ahead of Snape and raised his wand, pointing it directly at Lupin’s ack.
"Sectumsempra!" shouted Snape.
But the spell, intended for the Death Eater’s wand hand, missed and hit George instead -
And next, Snape was kneeling in Sirius’s old edroom. Tears were dripping from the end of his hooked nose as he read the old letter from Lily. The second page carried only a few words:
could ever have een friends with Gellert Grindelwald. I think her mind’s going, personally!
Lots of love,
Lily
Snape took the page earing Lily’s signature, and her love, and tucked it inside his roes. Then he ripped in two the photograph he was also holding, so that he kept the part from which Lily laughed, throwing the portion showing James and Harry ack onto the floor, under the chest of drawers...
And now Snape stood again in the headmaster’s study as Phineas Nigellus came hurrying into his portrait.
"Headmaster! They are camping in the Forest of Dean! The Mudlood - "
"Do not use that word!"
" - the Granger girl, then, mentioned the place as she opened her ag and I heard her!"
"Good. Very good!" cried the portrait of Dumledore ehind the headmaster’s chair. "Now, Severus, the sword! Do not forget that it must e taken under conditions of need and valor - and he must not know that you give it! If Voldemort should read Harry’s mind and see you acting for him - "
"I know," said Snape curtly. He approached the portrait of Dumledore and pulled at its side. It swung forward, revealing a hidden cavity ehind it from which he took the sword of Gryffindor.
"And you still aren’t going to tell me why it’s so important to give Potter the sword?" said Snape as he swung a traveling cloak over his roes.
"No, I don’t think so," said Dumledore’s portrait. "He will know what to do with it. And Severus, e very careful, they may not take kindly to your appearance after George Weasley’s mishap - "
Snape turned at the door.
"Don’t worry, Dumledore," he said coolly. "I have a plan..."
And Snape left the room. Harry rose up out of the Pensieve, and moments later he lay on the carpeted floor in exactly the same rooms Snape might just have closed the door.
Chapter Thirty-Four
The Forest Again
Finally, the truth. Lying with his face pressed into the dusty carpet of the office where he had once thought he was learning the secrets of victory, Harry understood at last that he was not supposed to survive. His jo was to walk calmly into Death’s welcoming arms. Along the way, he was to dispose of Voldemort’s remaining links to life, so that when at last he flung himself across Voldemort’s path, and did not raise a wand to defend himself, the end would e clean, and the jo that ought to have een done in Godric’s Hollow would e finished. Neither would live, neither could survive.
He felt his heart pounding fiercely in his chest. How strange that in his dread of death, it pumped all the harder, valiantly keeping him alive. But it would have to stop, and soon. Its eats were numered. How many would there e time for, as he rose and walked through the castle for the last time, out into the grounds and into the forest?
Terror washed over him as he lay on the floor, with that funeral drum pounding inside him. Would it hurt to die? All those times he had thought that it was aout to happen and escaped, he had never really thought of the thing itself: His will to live had always een so much stronger than his fear of death. Yet it did not occur to him now to try to escape, to outrun Voldemort. It was over, he knew it, and all that was left was the thing itself: dying.
If he could only have died on that summer’s night when he had left numer four, Privet Drive, for the last time, when the nole phoenix feather wand had saved him! If he could only have died like Hedwig, so quickly he would not have known it had happened! Or if he could have launched himself in front of a wand to save someone he loved . . . He envied even his parents’ deaths now. This cold-looded walk to his own destruction
would require a different kind of ravery. He felt his fingers tremling slightly and made an effort to control them, although no one could see him; the portraits on the walls were all empty.
Slowly, very slowly, he sat up, and as he did so he felt more alive and more aware of his own living ody than ever efore. Why had he never appreciated what a miracle he was, rain and nerve and ounding heart? It would all e gone . . . or at least, he would e gone from it. His reath came slow and deep, and his mouth and throat were completely dry, ut so were his eyes.
Dumledore’s etrayal was almost nothing. Of course there had een a igger plan: Harry had simply een too foolish to see it, he realized that now. He had never questioned his own assumption that Dumledore wanted him alive. Now he saw that his life span had always een determined y how long it took to eliminate all the Horcruxes. Dumledore had passed the jo of destroying them to him, and oediently he had continued to chip away at the onds tying not only Voldemort, ut himself, to life! How neat, how elegant, not to waste any more lives, ut to give the dangerous task to the oy who had already een marked for slaughter, and whose death would not e a calamity, ut another low against Voldemort.
And Dumledore had known that Harry would not duck out, that he would keep going to the end, even though it was his end, ecause he had taken troule to get to know him, hadn’t he? Dumledore knew, as Voldemort knew, that Harry would not let anyone else die for him now that he had discovered it was in his power to stop it. The images of Fred, Lupin, and Tonks lying dead in the Great Hall forced their way ack into his mind’s eye, and for a moment he could hardly reathe. Death was impatient . . .
But Dumledore had overestimated him. He had failed: The snake survived. One Horcrux remained to ind Voldemort to the earth, even after Harry had een killed. True, that would mean an easier jo for someody. He wondered who would do it . . . Ron and Hermione would know what needed to e done, of course . . . That would have een why Dumledore wanted him to confide in two others . . . so that if he fulfilled his true destiny a little early, they could carry on . . .
Like rain on a cold window, these thoughts pattered against the hard surface of the incontrovertile truth, which was that he must die. I must die. It must end.
Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away, in a far-off country; he felt as though he had parted from them long ago. There would e no good-yes and no explanations, he was determined of that. This was a journey they could not take together, and the attempts they would make to stop him would waste valuale time. He looked down at the attered gold watch he had received on his seventeenth irthday. Nearly half of the hour allotted y Voldemort for his surrender had elapsed.
He stood up. His heart was leaping against his ris like a frantic ird. Perhaps it knew it had little time left, perhaps it was determined to fulfill a lifetime’s eats efore the end. He did not look ack as he closed the office door.
The castle was empty. He felt ghostly striding through it alone, as if he had already died. The portrait people were still missing from their frames; the whole place was eerily still, as if all its remaining lifelood were concentrated in the Great Hall where the dead and the mourners were crammed.
Harry pulled the Invisiility Cloak over himself and descended through the floors, at last walking down the marle staircase into the entrance hall. Perhaps some tiny part of
him hoped to e sensed, to e seen, to e stopped, ut the Cloak was, as ever, impenetrale, perfect, and he reached the front doors easily.
Then Neville nearly walked into him. He was one half of a pair that was carrying a ody in from the grounds. Harry glanced down and felt another dull low to his stomach: Colon Creevey, though underage, must have sneaked ack just as Malfoy, Crae, and Goyle had done. He was tiny in death.
"You know what? I can manage him alone, Neville," said Oliver Wood, and he heaved Colin over his shoulder in a fireman’s lift and carried him into the Great Hall.
Neville leaned against the door frame for a moment and wiped his forehead with the ack of his hand. He looked like an old man. Then he set off on the steps again into the darkness to recover more odies.
Harry took one glance ack at the entrance of the Great Hall. People were moving around, trying to comfort each other, drinking, kneeling eside the dead, ut he could not see any of the people he loved, no hint of Hermione, Ron, Ginny, or any of the other Weasleys, no Luna. He felt he would have given all the time remaining to him for just one last look at them; ut then, would he ever have the strength to stop looking? It was etter like this.
He moved down the steps and out into the darkness. It was nearly four in the morning, and the deathly stillness of the grounds felt as though they were holding their reath, waiting to see whether he could do what he must.
Harry moved toward Neville, who was ending over another ody.
"Neville."
"Blimey, Harry, you nearly gave me heart failure!"
Harry had pulled off the Cloak: The idea had come to him out of nowhere, orn out of a desire to make asolutely sure.
"Where are you going, alone?" Neville asked suspiciously.
"It’s all part of the plan," said Harry. "There’s someting I’ve got to do. Listen --- Neville ---"
"Harry!" Neville looked suddenly scared. "Harry, you’re not thinking of handing yourself over?"
"No," Harry lied easily. "’Course not . . . this is something else. But I might e out of sight for a while. You know Voldemort’s snake. Neville? He’s got a huge snake . . . Calls it Nagini . . ."
"I’ve heard, yeah . . . What aout it?"
"It’s got to e killed. Ron and Hermione know that, ut just in case they ---"
The awfulness of that possiility smothered him for a moment, made it impossile to keep talking. But he pulled himself together again: This was crucial, he must e like Dumledore, keep a cool head, make sure there were ackups, others to carry on. Dumledore had died knowing that three people still knew aout the Horcruxes; now Neville would take Harry’s place: There would still e three in the secret.
"Just in case they’re --- usy --- and you get the chance ---"
"Kill the snake?"
"Kill the snake," Harry repeated.
"All right, Harry. You’re okay, are you?"
"I’m fine. Thanks, Neville."
But Neville seized his wrist as Harry made to move on.
"We’re all going to keep fighting, Harry. You know that?"
"Yeah, I ---"
The suffocating feeling extinguished the end of the sentence; he could not go on. Neville did not seem to find it strange. He patted Harry on the shoulder, released him, and walked away to look for more odies.
Harry swung the Cloak ack over himself and walked on. Someone else was moving not far away, stooping over another prone figure on the ground. He was feet away from her when he realized it was Ginny.
He stopped in his tracks. She was crouching over a girl who was whispering for her mother.
"It’s all right," Ginny was saying. "It’s ok. We’re going to get you inside."
"But I want to go home," whispered the girl. "I don’t want to fight anymore!"
"I know," said Ginny, and her voice roke. "It’s going to e all right."
Ripples of cold undulated over Harry’s skin. He wanted to shout out to the night, he wanted Ginny to know that he was there, he wanted her to know where he was going. He wanted to e stopped, to e dragged ack, to e sent ack home. . . .
But he was home. Hogwards was the first and est home he had known. He and Voldemort and Snape, the aandoned oys, had all found home here. . . .
Ginny was kneeling eside the injured girl now, holding her hand. With a huge effort Harry forced himself on. He thought he saw Ginny look around as he passed, and wondered whether she had sensed someone walking neary, ut he did not speak, and he did not look ack.
Hagrid’s hut loomed out of the darkness. There were no lights, no sound of Fang scraling at the door, his ark ooming in welcome. All those visits to Hagrid, and the gleam of the copper kettle on the fire, and rock cakes and giant grus, and his great earded face, and Ron vomiting slugs, and Hermione helping him save Norert . . .
He moved on, and now he reached the edge of the forest, and he stopped.
A swarm of dementors was gliding amongst the trees; he could feel their chill, and he was not sure he would e ale to pass safely through it. He had not strength left for a Patronus. He could no longer control his own tremling. It was not, after all, so easy to die. Every second he reathed, the smell of the grass, the cool air on his face, was so precious: To think that people had years and years, time to waste, so much time it dragged, and he was clinging to each second. At the same time he thought that he would not e ale to go on, and knew that he must. The long game was ended, the Snitch had een caught, it was time to leave the air. . . .
The Snitch. His nerveless fingers fumled for a moment with the pouch at his neck and he pulled it out.
I open at the close.
Breathing fast and hard, he stared down at it. Now that he wanted time to move as slowly as possile, he seemed to have sped up, and understanding was coming so fast it seemed to have ypassed though. This was the close. This was the moment.
He pressed the golden metal to his lips and whispered, "I am aout to die."
The metal shell roke open. He lowered his shaking hand, raised Draco’s wand eneath the Cloak, and murmured, "Lumos."
The lack stone with is jagged crack running down the center sat in the two halves of the Snitch. The Resurrection Stone had cracked down the vertical line
representing the Elder Wand. The triangle and circle representing the Cloak and the stone were still discernile.
And again Harry understood without having to think. It did not matter aout ringing them ack, for he was aout to join them. He was not really fetching them: They were fetching him.
He closed his eyes and turned the stone over in his hand three times.
He knew it had happened, ecause he heard slight movements around him that suggested frail odies shifting their footing on the earthy, twig-strewn ground that marked the outer edge of the forest. He opened his eyes and looked around.
They were neither ghost nor truly flesh, he could see that. They resemled most closely the Riddle that had escaped from the diary so long ago, and he had een memory made nearly solid. Less sustantial than living odies, ut much more than ghosts, they moved toward him. And on each face, there was the same loving smile.
James was exactly the same height as Harry. He was wearing the clothes in which he had died, and his hair was untidy and ruffled, and his glasses were a little lopsided, like Mr. Weasley’s.
Sirius was tall and handsome, and younger y far than Harry had seen him in life. He loped with an easy grace, his hands in his pockets and a grin on his face.
Lupin was younger too, and much less shay, and his hair was thicker and darker. He looked happy to e ack in this familiar place, scene of so many adolescent wanderings.
Lily’s smile was widest of all. She pushed her long hair ack as she drew closer to him, and her green eyes, so like his, searched his face hungrily, as though she would never e ale to look at him enough.
"You’ve een so rave."
He could not speak. His eyes feasted on her, and he thought that he would like to stand and look at her forever, and that would e enough.
"You are nearly there," said James. "Very close. We are . . . so proud of you."
"Does it hurt?"
The childish question had fallen from Harry’s lips efore he could stop it.
"Dying? Not at all," said Sirius. "Quicker and easier than falling asleep."
"And he will want it to e quick. He wants it over," said Lupin.
"I didn’t want you to die," Harry said. These words came without his volition. "Any of you. I’m sorry ---"
He addressed Lupin more than any of them, eseeching him.
"--- right after you’d had your son . . . Remus, I’m sorry ---"
"I am sorry too," said Lupin. "Sorry I will never know him . . . ut he will know why I died and I hope he will understand. I was trying to make a world in which he could live a happier life."
A chilly reeze that seemed to emanate from the heart of the forest lifted the hair at Harry’s row. He knew that they would not tell him to go, that it would have to e his decision.
"You’ll stay with me?"
"Until the very end," said James.
"They won’t e ale to see you?" asked Harry.
"We are part of you," said Sirius. "Invisile to anyone else."
Harry looked at his mother.
"Stay close to me," he said quietly.
And he set of. The dementors’ chill did not overcome him; he passed through it with his companions, and they acted like Patronuses to him, and together they marched through the old trees that grew closely together, their ranches tangled, their roots gnarled and twisted underfoot. Harry clutched the Cloak tightly around him in the darkness, traveling deeper and deeper into the forest, with no idea where exactly Voldemort was, ut sure that he would find him. Beside him, making scarcely a sound, walked James, Sirius, Lupin, and Lily, and their presence was his courage, and the reason he was ale to keep putting one foot in front of the other.
His ody and mind felt oddly disconnected now, his lims working without conscious instruction, as if he were passenger, not driver, in the ody he was aout to leave. The dead who walked eside him through the forest were much more real to him now than the living ack at the castle: Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and all the others were the ones who felt like ghosts as he stumled and slipped toward the end of his life, toward Voldemort . . .
A thud and a whisper: Some other living creature had stirred close y. Harry stopped under the Cloak, peering around, listening, and his mother and father, Lupin and Sirius stopped too.
"Someone there," came a rough whisper close at hand. "He’s got an Invisiility Cloak. Could it e --- ?"
Two figures emerged from ehind a neary tree: Their wands flared, and Harry saw Yaxley and Dolohov peering into the darkness, directly at the place Harry, his mother and father and Sirius and Lupin stood. Apparently they could not see anything.
"Definitely heard something," said Yaxley. "Animal, d’you reckon?"
"That head case Hagrid kept a whole unch of stuff in here," said Dolohov, glancing over his shoulder.
Yaxley looked down at his watch.
"Time’s nearly up. Porter’s had his hour. He’s not coming."
"Better go ack," said Yaxley. "Find out what the plan is now."
He and Dolohov turned and walked deeper into the forest. Harry followed them, knowing that they would lead him exactly where he wanted to go. He glanced sideways, and his mother smiled at him, and his father nodded encouragement.
They had traveled on mere minutes when Harry saw light ahead, and Yaxley and Dolohov stepped out into a clearing that Harry knew had een the place where the monstrous Aragog had once lived. The remnants of his vast we were there still, ut the swarms of descendants he had spawned had een driven out y the Death Eaters, to fight for their cause.
A fire urned in the middle of the clearing, and its flickering light fell over a crowd of completely silent, watchful Death Eaters. Some of them were still masked and hooded; others showed their faces. Two giants sat on the outskirts of the group, casting massive shadows over the scene, their faces cruel, rough-hewn like rock. Harry saw Fenrir, skulking, chewing his long nails; the great lond Rowle was daing at his leeding lip. He saw Lucius Malfoy, who looked defeated and terrified, and Narcissa, whose eyes were sunken and full of apprehension.
Every eye was fixed upon Voldemort, who stood with his head owed, and his white hands folded over the Elder Wand in front of him. He might have een praying, or else counting silently in his mind, and Harry, standing still on the edge of the scene, though asurdly of a child counting in a game of hide-and-seek. Behind his head, still swirling and coiling, the great snake Nagini floated in her glittering, charmed cage, like a monstrous halo.
When Dolohov and Yaxley rejoined the circle, Voldemort looked up.
"No sign of him, my Lord," said Dolohov.
Voldemort’s expression did not change. The red eyes seemed to urn in the firelight. Slowly he drew the Elder Wand etween his long fingers.
"My Lord ---"
Bellatrix had spoken: She sat closest to Voldemort, disheveled, her face a little loody ut otherwise unharmed.
Voldemort raised his hand to silence her, and she did not speak another word, ut eyed him in worshipful fascination.
"I thought he would come," said Voldemort in his high, clear voice, his eyes on the leaping flames. "I expected him to come."
Noody spoke. They seemed as scared as Harry, whose heart was now throwing itself against his ris as though determined to escape the ody he was aout to cast aside. His hands were sweating as he pulled off the Invisiility Cloak and stuffed it eneath his roes, with his wand. He did not want to e tempted to fight.
"I was, it seems . . . mistaken," said Voldemort.
"You weren’t."
Harry said it as loudly as he could, with all the force he could muster: He did not want to sound afraid. The Resurrection Stone slipped from etween his num fingers, and out of the corner of his eyes he saw his parents, Sirius, and Lupin vanish as he stepped forward into the firelight. At that moment he felt that noody mattered ut Voldemort. It was just the two of them.
The illusion was gone as soon as it had come. The giants roared as the Death Eaters rose together, and there were many cries, gasps, even laughter. Voldemort had frozen where he stood, ut his red eyes had found Harry, and he stared as Harry moved toward him, with nothing ut the fire etween them.
Then a voice yelled: "HARRY! NO!"
He turned: Hagrid was ound and trussed, tied to a tree neary. His massive ody shook the ranches overhead as he struggled, desperate.
"NO! NO! HARRY, WHAT’RE YEH --- ?"
"QUIET!" shouted Rowle, and with a flick of his wand, Hagrid was silenced.
Bellatrix, who had leapt to her feet, was looking eagerly from Voldemort to Harry, her reast heaving. The only things that moved were the flames and the snake, coiling and uncoiling in the glittering cage ehind Voldemort’s head.
Harry could feel his wand against his chest, ut he made no attempt to draw it. He knew that the snake was too well protected, knew that if he managed to point the wand at Nagini, fifty curses would hit him first. And still, Voldemort and Harry looked at each other, and now Voldemort tilted his head a little to the side, considering the oy standing efore him, and a singularly mirthless smile curled the lipless mouth.
"Harry Potter," he said very softly. His voice might have een part of the spitting fire. "The Boy Who Lived."
None of the Death Eaters moved. They were waiting: Everything was waiting. Hagrid was struggling, and Bellatrix was panting, and Harry thought inexplicaly of Ginny, and her lazing look, and the feel of her lips on his ---
Voldemort had raised his wand. His head was still tilted to one side, like a curious child, wondering what would happen if he proceeded. Harry looked ack into the red eyes, and wanted it to happen now, quickly, while he could still stand, efore he lost control, efore he etrayed fear ---
He saw the mouth move and a flash of green light, and everything was gone.
Chapter Thirty-Five
King’s Cross
He lay facedown, listening to the silence. He was perfectly alone. Noody was watching. Noody else was there. He was not perfectly sure that he was there himself.
A long time later, or maye no time at all, it came to him that he must exist, must e more than disemodied thought, ecause he was lying, definitely lying, on some surface. Therefore he had a sense of touch, and the thing against which he lay existed too.
Almost as soon as he had reached this conclusion, Harry ecame conscious that he was naked. Convinced as he was of his total solitude, this did not concern him, ut it did intrigue him slightly. He wondered whether, as he could feel, he would e ale to see. In opening them, he discovered that he had eyes.
He lay in a right mist, though it was not like mist he had ever experienced efore. His surroundings were not hidden y cloudy vapor; rather the cloudy vapor had not yet formed into surroundings. The floor on which he lay seemed to e white, neither warm nor cold, ut simply there, a flat, lank something on which to e.
He sat up. His ody appeared unscathed. He touched his face. He was not wearing glasses anymore.
Then a noise reached him through the unformed nothingness that surrounded him: the small soft thumpings of something that flapped, flailed, and struggled. It was a pitiful noise, yet also slightly indecent. He had the uncomfortale feeling that he was eavesdropping on something furtive, shameful.
For the first time, he wished he were clothed.
Barely had the wish formed in his head than roes appeared a short distance away. He took them and pulled them on. They were soft, clean, and warm. It was extraordinary how they had appeared just like that, the moment he had wanted them. . . .
He stood up, looking around. Was he in some great Room of Requirement? The longer he looked, the more there was to see. A great domed glass roof glittered high aove him in sunlight. Perhaps it was a palace. All was hushed and still, except for those odd thumping and whimpering noises coming from somewhere close y in the mist. . . .
Harry turned slowly on the spot, and his surroundings seemed to invent themselves efore his eyes. A wide-open space, right and clean, a hall larger y far than the Great Hall, with that clear domed glass ceiling. It was quite empty. He was the only person there, except for -
He recoiled. He had spotted the thing that was making the noises. It had the form of a small, naked child, curled on the ground, its skin raw and rough, flayed-looking, and it lay shuddering under a seat where it had een left, unwanted, stuffed out of sight, struggling for reath.
He was afraid of it. Small and fragile and wounded though it was, he did not want to approach it. Nevertheless he drew slowly nearer, ready to jump ack at any moment. Soon he stood near enough to touch it, yet he could not ring himself to do it. He felt like a coward. He ought to comfort it, ut it repulsed him.
"You cannot help."
He spun around. Alus Dumledore was walking toward him, sprightly and upright, wearing sweeping roes of midnight lue.
"Harry." He spread his arms wide, and his hands were oth whole and white and undamaged. "You wonderful oy. You rave, rave man. Let us walk."
Stunned, Harry followed as Dumledore strode away from where the flayed child lay whimpering, leading him to two seats that Harry had not previously noticed, set some distance away under that high, sparkling ceiling. Dumledore sat down in one of them, and Harry fell into the other, staring at his old headmaster’s face. Dumledore’s long silver hair and eard, the piercingly lue eyes ehind half-moon spectacles, the crooked nose: Everything was as he had rememered it. And yet . . .
"But you’re dead," said Harry.
"Oh yes," said Dumledore matter-of-factly.
"Then . . . I’m dead too?"
"Ah," said Dumledore, smiling still more roadly. "That is the question, isn’t it? On the whole, dear oy, I think not."
They looked at each other, the old man still eaming.
"Not?" repeated Harry.
"Not," said Dumledore.
"But . . ." Harry raised his hand instinctively toward the lightning scar. It did not seem to e there. "But I should have died - I didn’t defend myself! I meant to let him kill me!"
"And that," said Dumledore, "will, I think, have made all the difference."
Happiness seemed to radiate from Dumledore like light; like fire: Harry had never seen the man so utterly, so palpaly content.
"Explain," said Harry.
"But you already know," said Dumledore. He twiddled his thums together.
"I let him kill me," said Harry. "Didn’t I?"
"You did," said Dumledore, nodding. "Go on!"
"So the part of his soul that was in me . . ."
Dumledore nodded still more enthusiastically, urging Harry onward, a road smile of encouragement on his face.
". . . has it gone?"
"Oh yes!" said Dumledore. "Yes, he destroyed it. Your soul is whole, and completely your own, Harry."
"But then . . ."
Harry tremled over his shoulder to where the small, maimed creature tremled under the chair.
"What is that, Professor?"
"something that is eyond either of our help," said Dumledore.
"But if Voldemort used the Killing Curse," Harry started again, "and noody died for me this time - how can I e alive?"
"I think you know," said Dumledore. "Think ack. Rememer what he did, in his ignorance, in his greed and his cruelty."
Harry thought. He let his gaze drift over his surroundings. If it was indeed a palace in which they sat, it was an odd one, with chairs set in little rows and its of railing here and there, and still, he and Dumledore and the stunted creatures under the chair were the only eings there. Then the answer rose to his lips easily, without effort.
"He took my lood," said Harry.
"Precisely!" said Dumledore. "He took your lood and reuilt his living ody with it! Your lood in his veins, Harry, Lily’s protection inside oth of you! He thethered you to life while he lives!"
"I live . . . while he lives? But I thought . . . I thought it was the other way around! I thought we oth had to die? Or is it the same thing?"
He was distracted y the whimpering and thumping of the agonized creature ehind them and glanced ack at it yet again.
"Are you sure we can’t do anything?"
"There is no help possile."
"Then explain . . . more," said Harry, and Dumledore smiled.
"You were the seventh Horcrux, Harry, the Horcrux he never meant to make. He had rendered his soul so unstale that it roke apart when he committed those acts of unspeakale evil, the murder of your parents, the attempted killing of a child. But what escaped from that room was even less than he knew. He left more than his ody ehind. He left part of himself latched to you, the would-e victim who had survived.
"And his knowledge remained woefully incomplete, Harry! That which Voldemort does not value, he takes no troule to comprehend. Of house-elves and children’s tales, of love, loyalty, and innocence, Voldemort knows and understands nothing. Nothing. That they all have a power eyond his own, a power eyond the reach of any magic, is a truth he has never grasped.
"He took your lood elieving it would strengthen him. He took into his ody a tiny part of the enchantment your mother laid upon you when she died for you. His ody keeps her sacrafice alive, and while that enchantment survives, so do you and so does Voldemort’s one last hope for himself."
Dumledore smiled at Harry, and Harry stared at him.
"And you knew this? You knew - all along?"
"I guessed. But my guesses have usually een good," said Dumledore happily, and they sat in silence for what seemed like a long time, while the creature ehind them continued to whimper and tremle.
"There’s more," said Harry. "There’s more to it. Why did my wand reak the wand he orrowed?"
"As to that, I cannot e sure."
"Have a guess, then," said Harry, and Dumledore laughed.
"What you must understand, Harry, is that you and Lord Voldemort have journeyed together into realms of magic hitherto unknown and untested. But here is what
I think happened, and it is unprecedented, and no wandmaker could, I think, ever have predicted or explained it to Voldemort.
"Without meaning to, as you now know, Lord Voldemort douled the ond etween you when he returned to a human form. A part of his soul was still attached to yours, and, thinking to strengthen himself, he took a part of your mother’s sacrafice into himself. If he could only have understood the precise and terrile power of that sacrifice, he would not, perhaps, have dared to touch your lood. . . . But then, if he had een ale to understand, he could not e Lord Voldemort, and might never have murdered at all.
"Having ensured this two-fold connection, having wrapped your destinies together more securely than ever two wizards were joined in history, Voldemort proceeded to attack you with a wand that shared a core with yours. And now something very strange happened, as we know. The cores reacted in a way that Lord Voldemort, who never knew that your wand was a twin of his, had ever expected.
"He was more afraid than you were that night, Harry. You had accepted, even emraced, the possiility of death, something Lord Voldemort has never een ale to do. Your courage won, your wand overpowered his. And in doing so, something happened etween those wands, something that echoed the relationship etween their masters.
"I elieve that your wand imied some of the power and qualities of Voldemort’s wand that night, which is to say that it contained a little of Voldemort himself. So your wand recognized him when he pursued you, recognized a man who was oth kin and mortal enemy, and it regurgitated some of his own magic against him, magic much more powerful than anything Lucius’s wand had ever performed. Your wand now contained the power of your enormous courage and of Voldemort’s own deadly skill: What chance did that poor stick of Lucius Malfoy’s stand?"
"But if my wand was so powerful, how come Hermione was ale to reak it?" asked Harry.
"My dear oy, its remarkale effects were directed only at Voldemort, who had tampered so ill-advisedly with the deepest laws of magic. Only toward him was that wand anormally powerful. Otherwise it was a wand like any other . . . though a good one, I am sure," Dumledore finished kindly.
Harry sat in thought for a long time, or perhaps seconds. It was very hard to e sure of things like time, here.
"He killed me with your wand."
"He failed to kill you with my wand," Dumledore corrected Harry. "I think we can agree that you are not dead - though, of course," he added, as if fearing he had een discourteous, "I do not minimize your sufferings, which I am sure were severe."
"I feel great at the moment, though," said Harry, looking down at his clean, unlemished hands. "Where are we, exactly?"
"Well, I was going to ask you that," said Dumledore, looking around. "Where would you say that we are?"
Until Dumledore had asked, Harry had not known. Now, however, he found that he had an answer ready to give.
"It looks," he said slowly, "like King’s Cross station. Except a lo cleaner and empty, and there are no trains as far as I can see."
"King’s Cross station!" Dumledore was chuckling immoderately. "Good gracious, really?"
"Well, where do you think we are?" asked Harry, a little defensively.
"My dear oy, I have no idea. This is, as they say, your party."
Harry had no idea what this meant; Dumledore was eing infuriating. He glared at him, then rememered a much more pressing question than that of their current location.
"The Deathly Hallows," he said, and he was glad to see that the words wiped the smile from Dumledore’s face.
"Ah, yes," he said. He even looked a little worried.
"Well?"
For the first time since Harry had met Dumledore, he looked less than an old man, much less. He looked fleetingly like a small oy caught in wrongdoing.
"Can you forgive me?" he said. "Can you forgive me for not trusting you? For not telling you? Harry, I only feared that you would fail as I had failed. I only dreaded that you would make my mistakes. I crave your pardon, Harry. I have known, for some time now, that you are the etter man."
"What are you talking aout?" asked Harry, startled y Dumledore’s tone, y the sudden tears in his eyes.
"The Hallows, the Hallows," murmured Dumledore. "A desperate man’s dream!"
"But they’re real!"
"Real, and dangerous, and a lure for fools," said Dumledore. "And I was such a fool. But you know, don’t you? I have no secrets from you anymore. You know."
"What do I know?"
Dumledore turned his whole ody to face Harry, and tears still sparkled in the rilliantly lue eyes.
"Master of death, Harry, master of Death! Was I etter, ultimately, than Voldemort?"
"Of course you were," said Harry. "Of course - how can you ask that? You never killed if you could avoid it!"
"True, true," said Dumledore, and he was like a child seeking reassurance. "Yet I too sought a way to conquer death, Harry."
"Not the way he did," said Harry. After all his anger at Dumledore, how odd it was to sit here, eneath the high, vaulted ceiling, and defend Dumledore from himself. "Hallows, not Horcruxes."
"Hallows," murmured Dumledore, "not Horcruxes. Precisely."
There was a pause. The creature ehind them whimpered, ut Harry no longer looked around.
"Grindelwald was looking for them too?" he asked.
Dumledore closed his eyes for a moment and nodded.
"It was the thing, aove all, that drew us together," he said quietly. "Two clever, arrogant oys with a shared osession. He wanted to come to Godric’s Hollow, as I am sure you have guessed, ecause of the grave of Ignotus Peverell. He wanted to explore the place the third rother had died."
"So it’s true?" asked Harry. "All of it? The Peverell rothers -"
"-were the three rothers of the tale," said Dumledore, nodding. "Oh yes, I think so. Whether they met Death on a lonely road . . . I think it more likely that the
Peverell rothers were simply gifted, dangerous wizards who succeeded in creating those powerful ojects. The story of them eing Death’s own Hallows seems to me the sort of legend that might have sprung up around such creations.
"The Cloak, as you know now, traveled down through the ages, father to son, mother to daughter, right down to Ignotus’s last living descendant, who was orn, as Ignotus was, in the village of Godric’s Hollow."
Dumledore smiled at Harry.
"Me?"
"You. You have guessed,, I know, why the Cloak was in my possession on the night your parents died. James had showed it to me just a few days previously. It explained much of his undetected wrongdoing at school! I could hardly elieve what I was seeing. I asked to orrow it, to examine it. I had long since given up my dream of uniting the Hallows, ut I could not resist, could not help taking a closer look. . . . It was a Cloak the likes of which I had never seen, immensely old, perfect in every respect . . . and then your father died, and I had two Hallows at last, all to myself!"
His tone was unearaly itter.
"The Cloak wouldn’t have helped them survive, though," Harry said quickly. "Voldemort knew where my mum and dad were. The Cloak couldn’t have made them curse-proof."
"true," sighed Dumledore. "True."
Harry waited, ut Dumledore did not speak, so he prompted him.
"So you’d given up looking for the Hallows when you saw the Cloak?"
"Oh yes," said Dumledore faintly. It seemed that he forced himself to meet Harry’s eyes. "You know what happened. You know. You cannot despise me more than I despise myself."
"But I don’t despise you -"
"Then you should," said Dumledore. He drew a deep reath. "You know the secret of my sister’s ill health, what those Muggles did, what she ecame. You know how my poor father sought revenge, and paid the price, died In Azkaan. You know how my mother gave up her own life to care for Ariana.
"I resented it, Harry."
Dumledore stated it aldly, coldly. He was looking now over the top of Harry’s head, into the distance.
"I was gifted, I was rilliant. I wanted to escape. I wanted to shine. I wanted glory.
"Do not misunderstand me," he said, and pain crossed the face so that he looked ancient again. "I loved them, I loved my parents, I loved my rother and my sister, ut I was selfish, Harry, more selfish than you, who are a remarkaly selfless person, could possily imagine.
"So that, when my mother died, and I was left the responsiility of a damaged sister and a wayward rother, I returned to my village in anger and itterness. Trapped and wasted, I thought! And then of course, he came. . . ."
Dumledore looked directly into Harry’s eyes again.
"Grindelwald. You cannot imagine how his ideas caught me, Harry, inflamed me. Muggles forced into suservience. We wizards triumphant. Grindelwald and I, the glorious young leaders of the revolution.
"Oh, I had a few scruples. I assuaged my conscience with empty words. It would all e for the greater good, and any harm done would e repaid a hundredfold in enefits for wizards. Did I know, in my heart of hearts, what Gellert Grindelwald was? I think I did, ut I closed my eyes. If the plans we were making came to fruition, all my dreams would come true.
"And at the heart of our schemes, the Deathly Hallows! How they fascinated him, how they fascinated oth of us! The uneatale wand, the weapon that would lead us to power! The Resurrection Stone - to him, though I pretended not to know it, it meant an army of Inferi! To me, I confess, it meant the return of my parents, and the lifting of all responsiility from my shoulders.
"And the Cloak . . . somehow, we never discussed the Cloak much, Harry. Both of us could conceal ourselves well enough without the Cloak, the true magic of which, of course, is that it can e used to protect and shield others as well as its owner. I thought that, if we ever found it, it might e useful in hiding Ariana, ut our interest in the Cloak was mainly that it completed the trio, for the legend said that the man who had united all three ojects would then e truly master of death, which we took to mean ‘invincile.’
"Invincile masters of death, Grindelwald and Dumledore! Two months of insanity, of cruel dreams, and neglect of the only two memers of my family left to me.
"And then . . . you know what happened. Reality returned in the form of my rough, unlettered, and infinitely more admirale rother. I did not want to hear the truths he shouted at me. I did not want to hear that I could not set forth and seek Hallows with a fragile and unstale sister in tow.
"The argument ecame a fight. Grindelwald lost control. That which I had always sensed in him, though I pretended not to, now sprang into terrile eing. And Ariana . . . after all my mother’s care and caution . . . lay dead upon the floor."
Dumledore gave a little gasp and egan to cry in earnest. Harry reached out and was glad to find that he could touch him: He gripped his arm tightly and Dumledore gradually regained control.
"Well, Grindelwald fled, as anyone ut I could have predicted. He vanished, with his plans for seizing power, and his schemes for Muggle torture, and his dreams of the Deathly Hallows, dreams in which I had encouraged him and helped him. He ran, while I was left to ury my sister, and learn to live with my guilt and my terrile grief, the price of my shame.
"Years passed. There were rumors aout him. They said he had procured a wand of immense power. I, meanwhile, was offered the post of Minister of Magic, not once, ut several times. Naturally, I refused. I had learned that I was not to e trusted with power."
"But you’d have een etter, much etter, than Fudge or Scimgeour!" urst out Harry.
"Would I?" asked Dumledore heavily. "I am not so sure. I had proven, as a very young man, that power was my weakness and my temptation. It is a curious thing, Harry, ut perhaps those who are est suited to power are those who have never sought it. Those who, like you, have leadership thrust upon them, and take up the mantle ecause they must, and find to their own surprise that they wear it well.
"I was safer at Hogwarts. I think I was a good teacher -"
"You were the est ---"
"--- you are very kind, Harry. But while I usied myself with the training of young wizards, Grindelwald was raising an army. They say he feared me, and perhaps he did, ut less, I think, than I feared him.
"Oh, not death," said Dumledore, in answer to Harry’s questioning look. "Not what he could do to me magically. I knew that we were evenly matched, perhaps that I was a shade more skillful. It was the truth I feared. You see, I never knew which of us, in that last, horrific fight, had actually cast the curse that killed my sister. You may call me cowardly: You would e right, Harry. I dreaded eyond all things the knowledge that it had een I who rought aout her death, not merely through my arrogance and stupidity, ut that I actually struck the low that snuffed out her life.
"I think he knew it, I think he knew what frightened me. I delayed meeting him until finally, it would have een too shameful to resist any longer. People were dying and he seemed unstoppale, and I had to do what I could.
"Well, you know what happened next. I won the duel. I won the wand."
Another silence. Harry did not ask whether Dumledore had ever found out who struck Ariana dead. He did not want to know, and even less did he want Dumledore to have to tell him. At last he knew what Dumledore would have seen when he looked in the mirror of Erised, and why Dumledore had een so understanding of the fascination it had exercised over Harry.
They sat in silence for a long time, and the whipmerings of the creature ehind them arely distured Harry anymore.
At last he said, "Grindelwald tried to stop Voldemort going after the wand. He lied, you know, pretended he had never had it."
Dumledore nodded, looking down at his lap, tears still glittering on the crooked nose.
"They say he showed remorse in later years, alone in his cell at Nurmengard. I hope that is true. I would like to think that he did feel the horror and shame of what he had done. Perhaps that lie to Voldemort was his attempt to make amends . . . to prevent Voldemort from taking the Hallow . . ."
". . .or maye from reaking into your tom?" suggested Harry, and Dumledore daed his eyes.
After another short pause Harry said, "You tried to use the Resurrection Stone."
Dumledore nodded.
"When I discovered it, after all those years, uried in the aandoned home of the Gaunts --- the Hallow I had craved most of all, though in my youth I had wanted it for very different reasons --- I lost my head, Harry. I quite forgot that I was not a Horcrux, that the ring was sure to carry a curse. I picked it up, and I put it on, and for a second I imagined that I was aout to see Ariana, and my mother, and my father, and to tell them how very, very sorry, I was. . . .
"I was such a fool, Harry. After all those years I had learned nothing. I was unworthy to unite the Deathly Hallows, I had proved it time and again, and here was final proof."
"Why?" said Harry. "It was natural! You wanted to see them again. What’s wrong with that?"
"Maye a man in a million could unite the Hallows, Harry. I was fit only to possess the meanest of them, the least extraordinary. I was fit to own the Elder Wand,
and not oast of it, and not to kill with it. I was permitted to tame and use it, ecause I took it, not for gain, ut to save others from it.
"But the Cloak, I took out of vain curiousity, and so it could never have worked for me as it works for you, its true owners. The stone I would have used in an attempt to drag ack those who are at peace, rather than enale my self-sacrafice, as you did. You are the worthy possessor of the Hallows."
Dumledore patted Harry’s hand, and Harry looked up at the old man and smiled; he could not help himself. How coul dhe remain angry with Dumledore now?
"Why did you have to make it so difficult?"
Dumledore’s smile was tremulous.
"I am afraid I counted on Miss Granger to slow you up, Harry. I was afraid that your hot head might dominate your good heart. I was scared that, if presented outright with the facts aout those tempting ojects, you might seize the Hallows as I did, at the wrong time, for the wrong reasons. If you laid hands on them, I wanted you to possess them safely. You are the true master of death, ecause the true master does not seek to run away from Death. He accepts that he must die, and understands that there are far, far worse things in the living world than dying."
"And Voldemort never knew aout the Hallows?"
"I do not think so, ecause he did not recognize the Resurrection Stone he turned into a Horcrux. But even if he had known aout them, Harry. I dout that he woul dhave een interested in any except the first. He would not think that he needed the Cloak, and as for the stone, whom would he want to ring ack from the dead? He fears the dead. He does not love."
"But you expected him to go after the wand?"
"I have een sure that he would try, ever since your wand eat Voldemort’s in the graveyard of Little Hangleton. At first, he was afraid that you had conquered him y superior skill. Once he had kidnapped Ollivander, however, he discovered the existence of the twin cores. He thought that explained everything. Yet the orrowed wand did no etter against yours! So Voldemort, instead of asking himself what quality it was in you that had made your wand so strong, what gift you possessed that he did not, naturally set out to find the one wand that, they said, would eat any other. For him, the Elder Wand has ecome an osession to rival his osession with you. He elieves that the Elder Wand removes his last weakness and makes him truly invincile. Poor Severus . . ."
"If you planned your death with Snape, you meant him to end up with the Elder Wand, didn’t you?"
"I admit that was my intention," said Dumledore, "ut it did not work as I intended, did it?"
"No," said Harry. "That it didn’t work out."
The creature ehind them jerked and moaned, and Harry and Dumledore sate without talking for the longest time yet. The realization of what would happen next settled gradually over Harry in the long minutes, like softly falling snow.
"I’ve got to go ack, haven’t I?"
"That is up to you."
"I’ve got a choice?"
"Oh yes," Dumledore smiled at him. "We are in King’s Cross you say? I think that if you decided not to go ack, you would e ale to . . . let’s say . . . oard a train."
"And where would it take me?"
"On," said Dumledore simply.
Silence again.
"Voldemort’s got the Elder Wand."
"True. Voldemort has the Elder Wand."
"But you want me to go ack?"
"I think," said Dumledore, "that if you choose to return, there is a chance that he may e finished for good. I cannot promise it. But I know this, Harry, that you have less to fear from returning here than he does."
Harry glanced again at the raw looking thing that tremled and choked in the shadow eneath the distant chair.
"Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and aove all, those who live without love. By returning, you may ensure that fewer souls are maimed, fewer families are torn apart. If that seems to you a worthy goal, they we saw good-ye for the present."
Harry nodded and sighed. Leaving this place would not e nearly as hard as walking into the forest had een, ut it was warm and light and peaceful here, and he knew that he was heading ack to pain and the fear of more loss. He stood up, and Dumledore did the same, and they looked for a long moment into each other’s faces.
"Tell me one last thing," said Harry, "Is this real? Or has this een happening inside my head?"
Dumledore eamed at him, and his voice sounded loud and strong in Harry’s ears even though the right mist was descending again, oscuring his figure.
"Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, ut why on earth should that mean it is not real?"
Chapter Thirty-Six
The Flaw in the Plan
He was flying facedown on the grond again. The smell of the forest filled his nostrils. He could feel
the cold hard ground eneath his cheek, and the hinge of his glasses which have een knocked sideways
y the fall cutting into his temple. Every inch of him ached, and the place where Killing Curse had hit him
felt like the ruise of an iron-clad punch. He did not stir, ut he remained exactly where he had fallen, with
his left arm ent out at an akward angle and his mouth gaping.
He had expected to hear cheer of triumph and juilation at his death, ut instead hurried footsteps,
whispers, and solicitous murmurs filled the air.
"My Lord... my Lord..."
It was Bellatrixs voice, and she spoke as if to a lover. Harry did not dare open his eyes, ut allowed
his other senses to explore his predicament. He knew that his wand was still stowed eneath his roes ecause
he could feel it pressed etween his chest and the ground. A slight cushioning effect in the area of his stomach
told him that the Invisiility Cloak was also there, stuffed out of sight.
"My Lord..."
"That will do," said Voldemorts voice.
More footsteps. Several people were acking away from the same spot. Desperate to see what was
happening and why, Harry opened his eyes y a milimeter.
Voldemort seemed to e getting to his feet. Various Death Eaters were hurrying away from him,
returning to the crowd lining the clearing. Bellatrix alone remained ehind, kneeling eside Voldemort.
Harry closed his eyes again and considered what he had seen. The Death Eaters have een uddled
around Voldemort, who seem to have fallen to the ground. Something had happened when he had hit Harry with
the Killing Curse. Had Voldemort too collapsed? It seemed like it. And oth of them had riefly fallen unconcious
and oth of them had now returned. . .
"My Lord, let me --"
"I do not require assitance," said Voldemort coldly, and though he could not see it, Harry pictured
Bellatrix withdrawing a helpful hand. "The oy . . . Is he dead?"
There was a complete silence in the clearing. Noody approached Harry, ut he felt their concentraded
gaze; it seemed to press him harder into the ground, and he was terrified a finger or an eyelid might twitch.
"You," said Voldemort, and there was a ang and a small shrick of pain. "Examine him. Tell me whether he is dead."
Harry did not know who had een sent to verify. He could only lie there, with his heart thumping traitorously, and wait to e
examined, ut at the same time nothing, small comfort through it was, that Voldemort was wary of approaching him, that Voldemort
suspected that all had not gone to plan . . . .
Hands, softer than he had een expecting, touched Harrys face, and felt his heart. He could hear the womans fast reathing,
her pounding of life against his ris.
"Is Draco alive? Is he in the castle?"
The whisper was arely audile, her lips were an inch from his car, her head ent so low that her long hair shielded his face
from the onlookers.
"Yes," he reathed ack.
He felt the hand on his chest contract: her nails pierced him. Then it was withdrawn. She had sat up.
"He is dead!" Narcissa Malfoy called to the watchers.
And now they shouted, now they yelled in triumph and stamped their feet, and through his eyelids, Harry saw ursts of red
and silver light shoot into the air in celeration.
Still feigning death on the ground, he understood. Narcissa knew that the only way she would e permitted to enter Hogwarts,
and find her son, was as part of the conquering army. She no longer cared whether Voldemort won.
"You see?" screeched Voldemort over the tumult. "Harry Potter is dead y my hand, and no man alive can threaten me now!
Watch! Crucio!"
Harry had een expecting it, knew his ody would not e allowed to remain unsullied upon the forest floor; it must e sujected
to humiliation to prove Voldemorts victory. He was lifted into the air, and it took all his determination to remain limp, yet the pain he
expected did not come. He was thrown once, twice, three times into the air. His glasses flew off and he felt his wand slide a little eneath
his roes, ut he kept himself floppy and lifeless, and when he fell no ground for the last time, the clearing echoed with jeers and shrieks
of laughter.
"Now," said Voldemort, "we go to the castle, and show them what has ecome of their hero. Who shall drag the ody? No - Wait - "
There was a fresh outreak of laughter, and after a few moments Harry felt the ground tremling eneath him.
"You carry him," Voldemort said. "He will e nice and visile in your arms, will he not? Pick up your little friend, Hagrid. And the
glasses - put on the glasses - he must e recognizale - "
Someone slammed Harrys glasses ack onto his face with delierate force, ut the enormous hands that lifted him into the air
were exceedingly gentle. Harry could feel Hagrids arms tremling with the force of his heaving sos; great tears splashed down upon him
as Hagrid cradled Harry in his arms, and Harry did not dare, y movement or word, to intimate to Hagrid that all was not, yet, lost.
"Move," said Voldemort, and Hagrid stumled forward, forcing his way through the close-growing trees, ack through the forest.
Branches caught at Harrys hair and roes, ut he lay quiescent, his mouth lolling open, his eyes shut, and in the darkness, while the
Death Eaters croed all around them, and while Hagrid soed lindly, noody looked to see whether a pulse eat in the exposed neck of
Harry Potter. . . .
The two giants crashed along ehind the Death Eaters; Harry could hear trees creaking and falling as they passed; they made so
much din that irds toes shrieking into the sky, and even the jeers of the Death Eaters were drowned. The victorious procession marched
on toward the open ground, and after a while Harry could tell, y the lightening of the darkness through his closed eyelids, that the trees
were eginning to thin.
"BANE!"
Hagrids unexpected ellow nearly forced Harrys eyes open. "Happy now, are yeh, that yeh didnt fight, yeh cowardly unch o nags?
Are yeh happy Harry Potters - d-dead . . . ?"
Hagrid could not continue, ut roke down in fresh tears. Harry wondered how many centaurs were watching their procession pass;
he dared not open his eyes to look. Some of the Death Eaters called insults at the centaurs as they left them ehind. A little later, Harry
sensed, y a freshening of the air, that they had reached the edge of the forest.
"Stop."
Harry thought that Hagrid must have een forced to oey Voldemorts command, ecause he lurched a little. And now a chill settled
over them where they sood, and Harry heard the rasping reath of the dementors that patrolled the other trees. They would not affect him now.
The fact of his own survival urned inside him, a talisman against them, as though his fathers stag kept guardian in his heart.
Someone passed close y Harry, and he knew that it was Voldemort himself ecause he spoke a moment later, his voice magically
magnified so that it swelled through the ground, crashing upon Harrys eardrums.
"Harry Potter is dead. He was killed as he ran away, trying to save himself while you lay down your lives for him. We ring you his
ody as proof that your hero is gone.
"The attle is won. You have lost half of your fighters. My Death Eaters outnumer you, and the Boy Who Lived is finished. There must
e no more war. Anyone who continues to resist, man, woman or child, will e slaughtered, as will every memer of their family. Come out of the
castle now, kneel efore me, and you shall e spared. Your parents and children, your rothers and sisters will live and e forgiven, and you will
join me in the new world we shall uild togheter."
There was silence in the grounds and from the castle. Voldemort was so close to him that Harry did not dare open his eyes again.
"Come," said Voldemort, and Harry heard him move ahead, and Hagrid was forced to follow. Now Harry opened his eyes a fraction, and saw
Voldemort striding in front them, wearing the great snake Nagini around his shoulders, now free of her enchanted cage. But Harry had no possiility
of extracting the wand concealed under his roes without eing noticed y the Death Eaters, who marched on the either side of them through the
slowly lightening darkness . . . .
"Harry," soed Hagrid. "Oh, Harry . . . Harry . . ."
Harry shut his eyes tight again. He knew that they were approaching the castle and strained his ears to distinguish, aove the gleeful voices
of the Death Eaters and their tramping footsteps, signs of life from those within.
"Stop."
The Death Eaters camte to a halt; Harry heard them spreading out in a line facing the opne front doors of the school. He could see, even
though his closed lids, the teddish glow that meant light streamed upon him from the entrance hall. He waited. Any moment, the people for whom
he had tried to die would see him, lying apparently dead, in Hagrids arms.
"NO!"
The scream was the more terrile ecause he had never expected or dreamed that Professor McGonagall could make such a sound. He heard
another women laughing neary, and knew that Bellatrix gloried in McGonagalls despair. He squinted again for a single second and saw the open
doorway filling with people, as the survivors of the attle came out onto the front steps to face their vanquishers and see the truth of Harrys death for
themselves. He saw Voldemort standing a little in front of him, stroking Naginis head with a single white finger. He closed his eyes again.
"No!"
"No!"
"Harry! HARRY!"
Rons, Hermiones, and Ginnys voices were worse than McGonagalls; Harry wanted nothing more than to call ack, yet he made himself lie
silent, and their cries acted like a trigger; the crowd of survivors took up the cause, screaming and yelling ause at the Death Eathers, until -
"SILENCE!" cried Voldemort, and there was a ang and a flash of right light, and silence was forced upn them all. "It is over! Set him down,
Hagrid, at my feet, where he elongs!"
Harry felt himself lowered onto the grass.
"You see? said Voldemort, and Harry felt him striding ackward and forward right eside the place where he lay. "Harry Potter is dead! Do you
understand now, deluded ones? He was nothing, ever, ut a oy who relied on others to sacrifice themselves for him!"
"He eat you!" yelled Ron, and the charm roke, and the defenders of Hogwarts were shouting and screaming again until a second, more
powerful ang extinguished their voices once more.
"He was killed while trying to sneak out of the castle grounds," said Voldemort, and there was a relish in his voice for the lie. "killed while trying
to save himself - "
But Voldemort roke off: Harry heard a scuffle and a shout, then another ang, a flash of light, and grunt of pain; he opened his eyes an infinitesimal
amount. Someone had roken free of the crowd and charged at Voldemort: Harry saw the figure hit the ground. Disarmed, Voldemort throwing the challengers
wand aside and laughing.
"And who is this?" he said in his soft snakes hiss. "Who has volunteered to demonstrate what happens to those who continue to fight when the
attle is lost?"
Bellatrix gave a delighted laugh.
"It is Neville Longottom, my Lord! The oy who has een giving the Carrows so much troule! The son of the Aurors, rememer?"
"Ah, yes, I rememer," said Voldemort, looking down at Neville, who was struggling ack to his feet, unarmed and unproctected, standing in the
no-mans-land etween the survivors and the Death Eaters. "But you are a purelood, arent you, my rave oy? Voldemort asked Neville, who stood facing him,
his empty hands curled in fists.
"So what if I am?" said Neville loudly.
"You show spirit and ravery, and you come of nole stock. You will make a very valuale Death Eater. We need your kind, Neville Longottom."
"Ill join you when hell freezes over," said Neville. "Dumledores Army!" he shouted, and there was an answering cheer from the crowd, whom
Voldemorts Silencing Charms seemed unale to hold.
"Very well," said Voldemort, and Harry heard more danger in the silkiness of his voice than in the most powerful curse. "If that is your choice, Longottom,
we revert to the original plan. On your head," he said quietly, "e it."
Still watching through his lashes, Harry saw Voldemort wave his wand. Seconds later, out of one of the castles shattered windows, something that looked like a misshapen ird flew through the half light and landed in Voldemorts hand. He shook the mildewed oject y its pointed end and it dangled, emtpy and ragged: the Sorting Hat.
"There will e no more Sorting at Hogwarts School," said Voldemort. "There will e no more Houses. The emlem, sheild and colors of my nole ancestor, Salazar Slythering, will suffice everyone. Wont they, Neville Longottom?"
He pointed his wand at Neville, who grew rigid and still, then forced the hat onto Nevilles head, so thta it slipped down elow his eyes. There were movements from the watching crowd in front of the castle, and as one, the Death Eaters raised their wands, holding the fighters of Hogwarts at ay.
"Neville here is now going to demonstrate what happens to anyone foolish enough to continue to oppose me," said Voldemort, and with a flick of his wand, he caused the Sorting Hat to urst into flames.
Screams split the dawn, and Neville was a flame, rooted to the spot, unale to move, and Harry could not ear it: He must act -
And then many things happened at the same moment.
They heard uproar from the distant oundary of the school as what sounded like hundreds of people came swarming over the out-of-sight walls and pelted toward the castle, uttering lowd war cries. At the same time, Grawp came lumering around the side of the castel and yelled, "HAGGER!" His cry was answered y roars from Voldemorts giants: They ran at Grawp like ull elephants making the earth quake. Then came hooves and the twangs of ows, and arrows were suddenly falling amongst the Death Eaters, who roke ranks, shouting their surprise. Harry pulled the Invisiilty Cloak from inside his roes, swunt it over himself, and sprang to his feet, as Neville moved too.
In one swift, fluid motin, Neville roke free of the Body-Bind Curse upon him; the flaming har fell off him and he drew from its depths something silver, with a glittering, ruied handle -
The slash of the silver lade could not e heard over the roar of the oncoming crowd or the sounds of the clashing giants or of te stampending centaurs, and yet, it seemd to draw every eye. With a single stroke Neville sliced off the great snakes head, which spun high into the air, gleaming in the light flooding from the entrance hall, and
Voldemorts mouth was open in a scream of fury that noody could hear, and the snakes ody thudded to the ground at his feet-
Hidden eneath the Invisiilty Cloak, Harry cast a Shield Charm etween Neville and Voldemort efore the latter could raise his stamps of the attling giants, Hagrids yell came loudets of all.
"HARRY!" Hagrid shouted. "HARRY - WHERES HARRY?"
Chaos reigned. The charging centaurs were scattering the Death Eaters, everyone was feeling the giants stamping feet, and nearer and nearar thundered the reinforcements that had come from who knew where; Harry saw great winget creatues soaring the heads of Voldemorts giants, thestrals and Buckeak the hippogriff scratching at their eyes while Grawp punched and pummeled them and now the wizards, defenders of Hogwarts and Death Eaters alike were eing forced ack into the castle. Harry was shooting jinxes and curses at any Death Eater he could see, and they crumpled, not knowing what or who had hit them, and their odies were trampled y the retreating crowd. Still hidden eneath the Invisiility Cloak, Harry was uffered into the entrance hall: He was searching for Voldemort and saw him across the room, firing spells from his wand as he acked into the Great Hall, still screaming instructions to his followers as he sent curses flying left and right; Harry cast more Shield Charms, and Voldemorts would-e victims. Seamus Finnigan and Hannah Aott, datted past him into the Great Hall, where they joined the fight already flourishing inside it.
And now there were more, even more people storming up the front steps, and Harry saw Charlie Weasly overtaking Horace Slughorn, who was still wearing his emeral pijamas. They seemed to have returned at the head of what looked like the families and friends of every Hogwarts student who had remained to fight along with the shopkeeps and homeowners of Hogsmeade. The centaurs Bane, Ronan and Magorian urst into the hall with a great clatter of hooves, as ehind Harry the door that led to the kitchens was lasted off its hinges.
The house-elves of Hogwarts swarmed intot he entrance hall, screaming and waving carving knives and cleaver, and at their head, the locker of Regulus Black ouncing on his chest, was Kreacher, his ullfrogs voice audile even aove this din: "Fight! Fight! Fight for my Master, defender of house-elves! Fight the Dark Lord, in the name of rave Regulus! Fight!"
They were hacking and staing at the ankles and shim of Death Eaters their tiny faces alive with malice, and everywhere Harry looked Death Eaters were folding under sheer weight of numers, overcome y spells, dragging arrows from wounds, staed in the leg y elves, or else simply attempting to escape, ut swallowed y the oncoming horde.
But it was not over yet: Harry sped etween duelers, past atruggling prosoners, and into he Great Hall.
Voldemort was in the center of the attle, and he was striking and smiting al within reach. Harry could not get a clear shot, ut fought his way nearer, still invisile, and the Great Hall ecame more and more crowded as everyone who could walk forced their way inside.
Harry saw Yaxley slammed tot he floor y George and Lee Jordan, saw Dolohov fall with a scream at Flitwicks hands, saw Walden Macnair thrown across the room y Hagrid, hit the stone wall opposite, and slide unconscious to the ground. He saw Ron and
Neville ringing down Fenrir Greyack. Aerforth Stunning Rookwood, Arthur and Percy flooting Thicknesse, and Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy running through the crowd, not even attempting to fight, screaming for their son.
Voldemort was now dueling McGonagall, Slughorn, Kingsley all at once, and there was a cold hatred in his face as they wove and ducked around him, unale to finish him -
Bellatrix was still fighing too, fifty yards away from Voldemort, and like her master she dueled three at once: Hermione, Ginny and Luna, all attling their hardest, ut Bellatrix was equal to them, and Harrys attention was diverted as a Killing Curse shot so close to Ginny that she missed death y an inch -
He changed course, running at Bellatrix rather than Voldemort, ut efore he had gone a few steps he was knocked sideways.
"NOT MY DAUGHTER, YOU BITCH!"
Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran, freeing her arms, Bellatrix spun on the spot, roaring with laughter at the sight of the new challenger.
"OUT OF MY WAY!" shouted Mrs. Weasley to the three girls, and with a simple swipe of her wand she egan to duel. Harry watched with terror and elation as Molly Weasleys wand slashed and twisted, and Bellatrix Lestranges smile faltered and ecame a snarl. Jets of light flew from oth wands, the floor around the withces feet ecame ot and cracked; oth woman were fighting to kill.
"No!" Mrs. Weasley cried as a few students ran forward, trying to come to her aid. "Get ack! Get ack! She is mine!"
Hundreds of people now lined the walls, watching the two fights, Voldemort and his three opponents, Bellatrix and Molly, and Harry stood, invisile, torn etween oth, wanting to attack and yet to protect, unale to e sure that he would not hit the innocent.
"What will happen to your children when Ive killed you?" taunted Bellatrix, as mad as her master, capering as Mollys curses danced around her. "When Mummys gone the same way as Freddie?"
"You - will - never - touch - our - children - again!" screamed Mrs. Weasley.
Bellatrix laughed the same exhilarated laugh her cousin Sirius had given as he toppled ackward through the veil, and suddenly Harry knew what was going to happen efore it did.
Mollys curse soared eneath Bellatrixs constreched arm and hit her squarely in the chest, directly over her heart.
Bellatrixs glounting smile froze, her eyes seemd to ulge: For the tiniest space of time she knew what had happened, and then she toppled, and the watching crowd roared, and Voldemord screamed.
Harry felt as though he turned into slow motin: he saw McGonagall, Kingsley and Slughorn lasted ackward, flailing and writhing through the air, as Voldemorts fury at the fall of his last, est leutenant exploded with the force of a om, Voldemort raised his wand and directed it at Molly Weasley.
"Protego!" roared Harry, and the Shield Charm expanded in the middle of the Hall, and Voldemort stared around for the source as Harry pulled off the Invisiility Cloak at last.
The yell of shock, the cheers, the screams on every side of :"Harry!" "HES ALIVE!" were stifled at once. The crowd was afraid, and silence fell aruptly and
completely as Voldemort and Harry looked at each other, and egan, at the same moment, to circle each other.
"I dont want anyone else to help," Harry said loudly, and in the total silence his voice carried like a trumpet call. "Its got to e like this. Its got to e me."
Voldemort hissed.
"Potter doesnt mean that," he said, his red eyes wide. "This isnt how he works, is it? Who are you going to use as a shield today, Potter?"
"Noody," said Harry simply. "There are no more Horcruxes. Its just you and me. Neither can live while the other survives, and one of us is aout to leave for good. . . ."
"One of us?" jeered Voldemort, and his wholy ody was taut and his red eyes stared, a snake that was aout to strike. "You think it will e you, do you, the oy who has survived y accident, and ecause Dumledore was pulling the strings?"
"Accident, was it, when my mother died to save me?" asked Harry. They were still moving sideways, oth of them, in that perfect circle, maintaining the same distance from each other, and for Harry no face existed ut Voldemorts. "Accident, when I decided to fight in that graveyard? Accident, that I didnt defend myself tonight, and still survived, and returned to fight again?"
"Accidents!" screamed Voldemort, ut still he did not strike, and the watching crowd was frozen as if Petrified, and of the hundreds in the Hall, noody seemed to reathe ut they two. "Accident and chance and the fact that you crouched and sniveled ehind the skirts of greater men and women, and permitted me to kill them for you!"
"You wont e killing anyone else tonight," said Harry as they circled, and stared into each others eyes, green into red. "You wont e ale to kill any of them ever again. Dont you get it? I was ready to die to stop you from hurting these people - "
"But you did not!"
" - I meant to, and thats what did it. Ive done what my mother did. Theyre protected from you. Havent you noticed how none of the spells you put on them are inding? You cant torture them. You cant touch them. You dont learn from your mistakes, Riddle, do you?"
"You dare -"
"Yes, I dare," said Harry. "I know things you dont know, Tom Riddle. I know lots of important things that you dont. Want to hear some, efore you make another ig mistake?"
Voldemort did not speak, ut powled in a circle, and Harry knew that he kept him temporarily mesmerized at ay, held ack y the faintest possiility that Harry might indeed know a final secret. . . .
"Is it love again?" said Voldemort, his snakes face jeering. "Dumledore favorite solution, love, which he claimed conqered death, though love did not stop him falling from the tower and reaking like and old waxwork? Love, which did not prevent me stamping out your Modlood mother like a cockroack, Potter - and noody seems to love you enough to run forward this time and take my curse. So what will stop you dying now when I strike?"
"Just one thing," said Harry, and still they circled each other, wrapped in each other, held apart y nothing ut the last secret.
"If it is not love that will save you this time," said Voldemort, "you must elieve that you have magic that i do not, or else a weapon more powerful than mine?"
"I elieve oth," said Harry, and he saw shock flit across the snakelike face, though it was instantly dispelled; Voldemort egan to laugh, and the sound was more frightening than his screams; humorles and insane, it echoed around the silent Hall.
"You think you know more magic than I do?" he said. "Than I, than Lord Voldemort, who has performed magic that Dumledore himself never dreamed of?"
"Oh he dreamed of it," said Harry, "ut he knew more than you, knew enough not to do what youve done."
"You mean he was weak!" screamed Voldemort. "Too weak to dare, too weak to take what might have een his, what will e mine!"
"No, he was cleverer than you," said Harry, "a etter wizard, a etter man."
"I rought aout the death of Alus Dumledore!"
"You thought you did," said Harry, "ut you were wrong."
For the frist time, the watching crowd stirred as the hundreds of people around the walls drew reath as one.
"Dumledore is dead!" Voldemort hurled the words at Harry as in the marle tom in the grounds of this castle, I have seen it, Potter, and he will not return!"
"Yes, Dumledore is dead," said Harry calmly, "ut you didnt have him killed. He chose his own manner of dying, chose it months efore he died, arranged the whole thing with the man you thought was your servant."
"What chldish dream is this?" said Voldemort, ut still he did not strike, and his red eyes did not waver from Harrys.
"Severus Snape wasnt yours," said Harry. "Snape was Dumledores. Dumledores from the moment you starting hunting down my mother. And you never realized it, ecause of the thing you cant understand. You never saw Snape cast a Patronus, did you, Riddle?"
Voldemort did not answer. They continued to circle each other like wolves aout to tear each other apart.
"Snapes Patronus was a doe," said Harry, "the same as my mothers, ecause he loved her for nearly all of his life, from the time when they were children. You should have realized," he said as he saw Voldemorts nostrils flare, "he asked you to spare her life, didnt he?" "He desired her, that was all," sneered Voldemort, "ut when she had gone, he agreed that there were other women, and of purer lood, worhier of him - "
"Of course he told you that," said Harry, "ut he was Dumledores spy from the moment you threatened her, and hes een working against you ever since! Dumledore was already dying when Snape finished him!"
"It matters not!" shrieked Voldemort, who had followed every word with rapt attention, ut now let out a cackle of mad laughter. "It matters not whether Snape was mine or Dumledores, or what petty ostacles they tried to put in my path! I crushed them as I crushed your mother, Snapes supposed great love! Oh, ut it all makes sense, Potter, and in ways that you do not understand!
"Dumledore was trying to keep the Elder Wand from me! He intended that Snape should e the true master of the wand! But I got there ahead of you, little oy - I reached the wand efore you could get your hands on it, I understood the truth efore you caught up. I killed Severus Snape three hours ago, and the Elder Wand, the Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny is truly mine! Dumledores last plan went wrong, Harry Potter!"
"Yeah, it did." said Harry. "Youre right. But efore you try to kill me, Id advise you think what youve done . . . . Think, and try for some remorse, Riddle. . . ."
"What is this?"
Of all the things that Harry had said to him, eyond any revelation or taunt, nothing had socked Voldemort like this. Harry saw is pupils contract to thin slits, saw the skin around his eyes whiten.
"Its your one last chance," said Harry, "its all youve got left. . . . Ive seen what youll e otherwise. . . . Be a man. . . try. . . Try for some remorse. . . ."
"You dare --- ?" said Voldemort again.
"Yes, I dare," said Harry, "ecause Dumledore’s last plan hasn’t ackfired on me at all. It’s ackfired on you, Riddle."
Voldemort’s hand was tremling on the Elder Wand, and Harry gripped Draco’s very tightly. The moment, he knew, was seconds away.
"That wand still isn’t working properly for you ecause you murdered the wrong person. Severus Snape was never the true master of the Elder Wand. He never defeated Dumledore."
"He killed --- "
"Aren’t you listening? Snape never eat Dumledore! Dumledore’s death was planned etween them! Dumledore instended to die, undefeated, the wand’s last true master! If all had gone as planned, the wand’s power would have died with him, ecause it had never een won from him!"
"But then, Potter, Dumledore as good as gave me the wand!" Voldemort’s voice shook with malicious pleasure. "I stole the wand from its last master’s tom! I removed it against the last master’s wishes! Its power is mine!"
"You still don’t get it, Riddle, do you? Possessing the wand isn’t enough! Holding it, using it, doesn’t make it really yours. Didn’t you listen to Ollivander? The wand chooses the wizard . . . The Elder Wand recognized a new master efore Dumledore died, someone who never even laid a hand on it. The new master removed the wand from Dumledore against his will, never realizing exactly what he had done, or that the world’s most dangerous wand had given him its allegiance . . ."
Voldemort’s chest rose and fell rapidly, and Harry could feel the curse coming, feel it uilding inside the wand pointed at his face.
"The true master of the Elder Wand was Draco Malfoy."
Blank shock showed in Voldemort’s face for a moment, ut then it was gone.
"But what does it matter?" he said softly. "Even if you are right, Potter, it makes no difference to you and me. You no longer have the phoenix wand: We duel on skill alone . . . and after I have killed you, I can attend to Draco Malfoy . . ."
"But you’re too late," said Harry. "You’ve missed your chance. I got there first. I overpowered Draco weeks ago. I took his wand from him."
Harry twitched the hawthorn wand, and he felt the eyes of everyone in the Hall upon it.
"So it all comes down to this, doesn’t it?" whispered Harry. "Does the wand in your hand know its last master was Disarmed? Because if it does . . . I am the true master of the Elder Wand."
A red-glow urst suddenly across the enchanted sky aove them as an edge of dazzling sun appeared over the sill of the nearest window. The light hit oth of their faces
at the same time, so that Voldemort’s was suddenly a flaming lur. Harry heard the high voice shriek as he too yelled his est hope to the heavens, pointing Draco’s wand:
"Avada Kedavra!"
"Expelliarmus!"
The ang was like a cannon last, and the golden flames that erupted etween them, at the dead center of the circle they had een treading, marked the point where the spells collided. Harry saw Voldemort’s green jet meet his own spell, saw the Elder Wand fly high, dark against the sunrise, spinning across the enchanted ceiling like the head of Nagini, spinning through the air toward the master it would not kill, who had come to take full possession of it at last. And Harry, with the unerring skill of the Seeker, caught the wand in his free hand as Voldemort fell ackward, arms splayed, the slit pupils of the scarlet eyes rolling upward. Tom Riddle hit the floor with a mundane finality, his ody feele and shrunken, the white hands empty, the snakelike face vacant and unknowing. Voldemort was dead, killed y his own reounding curse, and Harry stood with two wands in his hand, staring down at his enemy’s shell.
One shivering second of silence, the shock of the moment suspended: and then the tumult roke around Harry as the screams and the cheers and the roars of the watchers rent the air. The fierce new sun dazzled the windows as they thundered toward him, and the first to reach him were Ron and Hermione, and it was their arms that were wrapped around him, their incomprehensile shouts that deafened him. The Ginny, Neville, and Luna were there, and then all the Weasleys and Hagrid, and Kingsley and McGonagall and Flitwick and Sprout, and Harry could not hear a word that anyone was shouting, not tell whose hands were seizing him, pulling him, trying to hug some part of him, hundreds of them pressing in, all of them determined to touch the Boy Who Lived, the reason it was over at last ---
The sun rose steadily over Hogwarts, and the Great Hall lazed with life and light. Harry was an indispensile part of the mingled outpourings of juilation and mourning, of grief and celeration. They wanted him there with them, their leader and symol, their savior and their guide, and that he had not slept, that he craved the company of only a few of them, seemed to occur to no one. He must speak to the ereaved, clasp their hands, witness their tears, receive their thanks, hear the news now creeping in from every quarter as the morning drew on; that the Imperiused up and down the country had come ack to themselves, that Death Eaters were fleeing or else eing captured, that the innocent of Azkaan were eing released at that very moment, and that Kingsley Shackleolt had een named temporary Minister of Magic.
They moved Voldemort’s ody and laid it in a chamer off the Hall, away form the odies of Fred, Tonks, Lupin, Colin Creevey, and fifty others who had died fighting him. McGonagall had replaced the House tales, not noody was sitting according to House anymore: All were jumled together, teachers and pupils, ghosts and parents, centaurs and house-elves, and Firenze lay recovering in the corner, and Grawp peered in through a smashed window, and people were throwing food into his laughing mouth. After a while, exhausted and drained, Harry found himself sitting on a ench eside Luna.
"I’d want some peace and quiet, if it were me," she said.
"I’d love some," he replied.
"I’ll distract them all," she said. "Use your cloak."
And efore he could say a word, she had cried, "Oooh, look, a Bliering
Humdinger!" and pointed out the window. Everyone who heard looked around, and Harry slid the Cloak up over himself, and got to his feet.
Now he could move through the Hall without interference. He spotted Ginny two tales away; she was sitting with her head on her mother’s shoulder: There would e time to talk later, hours and days and maye years in which to talk. He saw Neville, the sword of Gryffindor lying eside his plate as he ate, surrounded y a knot of fervent admirers. Along the aisle etween the tales he walked, and he spotted the three Malfoys, huddled together as though unsure whether or not they were supposed to e there, ut noody was paying them any attention. Everywhere he looked, he saw families reunited, and finally, he saw the two whose company he craved most.
"It’s me," he muttered, crouching down etween them. "Will you come with me?"
They stood up at once, and together he, Ron and Hermione left the Great Hall. Great chunks were missing from the marle staircase, part of the alustrade gone, and rule and loodstains occurred ever few steps as their climed.
Somewhere in the distance they could hear Peeves zooming through the corridors singing a victory song of his own composition:
We did it, we ashed them, wee Potter’s the one,
And Voldy’s gone moldy, so now let’s have fun!
"Really gives a feeling for the scope and tragedy of the thing, doesn’t it?" said Ron, pushing open a door to let Harry and Hermione through.
Happiness would come, Harry though, ut at the moment it was muffled y exhaustion, and the pain of losing Fred and Lupin and Tonks pierced him like a physical wound every few steps. Most of all he felt the most stupendous relief, and a longing to sleep. But first he owed an explanation to Ron and Hermione, who had stuck with him for so long, and who deserved the truth. Painstakingly he recounted what he had seem in the Pensieve and what had happened in the forest, and they had not even egun to express all their shock and amazement, when at last they arrived at the place to which they had een walking, though none of them had mentioned their destination.
Since he had last seen it, the gargoyle guarding the entrance to the headmaster’s study had een knocked aside; it stood lopsided, looking a little punch-drunk, and Harry wondered whether it would e ale to distinguish passwords anymore.
"Can we go up?" he asked the gargoyle.
"Feel free," groaned the statue.
They clamered over him and onto the spiral stone staircase that moved slowly upward like an escalator. Harry pushed open the door at the top.
He had one, rief glimpse of the stone Pensieve on the desk where he had left it, and then an earsplitting noise made him cry out, thinking of curses and returning Death Eaters and the reirth of Voldemort ---
But it was applause. All around the walls, the headmasters and headmistresses of Hogwarts were giving him a standing ovation; they waved their hats and in some cases their wigs, they reached through their frames to grip each other’s hands; they danced up and down on their chairs in which they have een painted: Dilys Derwent soed unashamedly; Dexter Fortescue was waving his ear-trumpet; and Phineas Niggelus called,
in his high, reedy voice, "And let it e noted that Slytherin House played its part! Let our contriution not e forgotten!"
But Harry had eyes only for the man who stood in the largest portrait directly ehind the headmaster’s chair. Tears were sliding down from ehind the half-moon spectacles into the long silver eard, and the pride and the gratitude emanating from him filled Harry wit h the same alm as phoenix song.
At last, Harry held up his hands, and the portraits fell respectfully silent, eaming and mopping their eyes and waiting eagerly for him to speak. He directed his words at Dumledore, however, and chose them with enormous care. Exhausted and leary-eyed though he was, he must make one last effort, seeking one last piece of advice.
"The thing that was hidden in the Snitch," he egan, "I dropped it in the forest. I don’t exactly here, ut I’m not going to go looking for it again. Do you agree?"
"My dear oy, I do," said Dumledore, while his fellow pictures looked confused and curious. "A wise and courageous decision, ut no less than I would have expected of you. Does anyone know else know where it fell?"
"No one," said Harry, and Dumledore nodded his satisfaction.
"I’m going to keep Ignotus’s present, though," said Harry, and Dumledore eamed.
"But of course, Harry, it is yours forever, until you pass it on!"
"And then there’s this."
Harry held up the Elder Wand, and Ron and Hermione looked at it with a reverence that, even in his efuddled and sleep-deprived state, Harry did not like to see.
"I don’t want it." said Harry.
"What?" said Ron loudly. "Are you mental?"
"I know it’s powerful," said Harry wearily. "But I was happier with mine. So . . ."
He rummaged in the pouch hung around his neck, and pulled out the two halves of holly tstill just connected y the finest threat of phoenix feather. Hermione had said that they could not e repaired, that the damage was too severe. All he knew was that if this did not work, nothing would.
He laid the roken wand upon the headmaster’s desk, touched it with the very tip of the Elder Wand, and said, "Reparo."
As his wand resealed, red sparks flew out of its end. Harry knew that he had succeeded. He picked up the holly and phoenix wand and felt a sudden warmth in his fingers, as though wand and hand were rejoicing at their reunion.
"I’m putting the Elder Wand," he told Dumledore, who was watching him with enormous affection and admiration, "ack where it came from. It can stay there. If I die a natural death like Ignotus, its power will e roken, won’t it? The previous master will never have een defeated. That’ll e the end of it.
Dumledore nodded. They smiled at each other.
"Are you sure?" said Ron. There was the faintest trace of longing in his voice as he looked at the Elder Wand.
"I think Harry’s right," said Hermione quietly.
"That wand’s more troule than it’s worth." said Harry. "And quite honestly," he turned away from the painted portraits, thinking now only of the four-poster ed lying waiting for him in Gryffindor Tower, and wondering whether Kreacher might ring him a sandwich there, "I’ve had enough troule for a lifetime."
Epilogue
Nineteen Years Later
Autumn seemed to arrive suddenly that year. The morning of the first of Septemer was crisp as an apple, and as the little family oed across the rumling road toward the great sooty station, the fumes of car exhausts and the reath of pedestrians sparkled like cowes in the cold air. Two large cages tattled on top of the laden trolleys the parents were pushing; the owls inside them hooted indignantly, and the redheaded girl trailed fearfully ehind here rothers, clutching her fathers arm.
"It wont e long, and youll e going too," Harry told her.
"Two years," sniffed Lily. "I want to go now!"
The commuters stared curiously at the owls as the family wove its way toward the arrier etween platforms nine and ten, Aluss voice drifted ack to Harry over the surrounding clamor; his sons had resumed the argument they had started in the car.
"I wont! I wont e a Slytherin!"
"James, give it a rest!" said Ginny.
"I only said he might e," said James, grinning at his younger rother. "Theres nothing wrong with that. He might e in Slytherin"
But James caught his mothers eye and fell silent. The five Potters approached the arrier. With a slightly cocky look over his shoulder at his younger rother, James took the trolley from his mother and roke into a run. A moment later, he had vanished.
"Youll write to me, wont you?" Alus asked his parents immediately, capitalizing on the momentary asence of his rother.
"Every day, of you want us to," said Ginny.
"Not every day," said Alus quickly, "James says most people only get letters from home aout once a month."
"We wrote to James three times a week last year," said Ginny.
"And you dont want to elieve everything he tells you aout Hogwarts," Harry put in. "He likes a laugh, your rother."
Side y side, they pushed the second trolley forward, gathering speed. As they reached the arrier, Alus winced, ut no collision came. Instead, the family emerged onto platform nine and three-quarters, which was oscured y thick white steam that was pouring from the scarlet Hogwarts Express. Indistinct figures were swarming through the mist, into which James had already disappeared.
"Where are they?" asked Alus anxiously, peering at the hazy forms they passed as they made their way down the platform.
"Well find them," said Ginny reassuringly.
But the vapor was dense, and it was difficult to make out anyodys faces. Detached from their owners, voices sounded unnaturally loud, Harry thought he head Percy discoursing loudly on roomstick regulations, and was quite glad of the excuse not to stop and say hello. . . .
"I think thats them, Al," said Ginny suddenly.
A group of four people emerged from the mist, standing alongside the very last carriage. Their faces only came into focus when Harry, Ginny, Lily, and Alus had drawn right up to them.
"Hi," said Alus, sounding immensely relieved.
Roses, who was already wearing her rand-new Hogwarts roes, eamed at him.
"Parked all right, then?" Ron asked Harry. "I did. Hermione didnt elieve I could pass a Muggle driving test, did you? She thought Id have to Confound the examiner."
"No, I didnt," said Hermione, "I had complete faith in you."
"As a matter of fact, I did Confund him," Ron whispered to Harry, as together they lifted Aluss trunk and owl onto the train. "I only forgot to look in the wing mirror, and lets face it, I can use a Supersensory Charm for that."
Back on the platform, they found Lily and Hugo, Roses younger rother, having an animated discussion aout which House they would e sorted into when they finally went to Hogwarts.
"If youre not in Gryffindor, well disinherit you," said Ron, "ut no pressure."
"Ron!"
Lily and Hugo laughed, ut Alus and Rose looked solemn.
"He doesnt mean it," said Hermione and Ginny, ut Ron was no longer paying attention. Catching Harrys eye, he nodded covertly to a point some fifty yards away. The steam had thinned for a moment, and three people stood in sharp relief against the shifting mist.
"Look who it is."
Draco Malfoy was standing there with his wife and son, a dark coat uttoned up to his throat. His hair was receding somewhat, which emphasized the pointed chin. The new oy resemled Draco as much as Alus resemled Harry. Draco caught sight of Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny staring at him, nodded curtly, and turned away again.
"So thats little Scorpius," said Ron under his reath. "Make sure you eat him in every test, Rosie. Thank God you inherited your mothers rains."
"Ron, for heavens sake," said Hermione, half stern, half amused. "Dont try to turn them against each other efore theyve even started school!"
"Youre right, sorry," said Ron, ut unale to help himself, he added, "Dont get too friendly with him, though, Rosie. Granddad Weasley would never forgive you if you married a purelood."
"Hey!"
James had reappeared; he had divested himself of his trunk, owl, and trolley, and was evidently ursting with news.
"Teddys ack there," he said reathlessly, pointing ack over his shoulder into the illowing clouds of steam. "Just seen him! And guess what hes doing? Snogging Victoire!"
He gazed up at the adults, evidently disappointed y the lack of reaction.
"Our Teddy! Teddy Lupin! Snogging our Victoire! Our cousin! And I asked teddy what he was doing --"
"You interrupted them?" said Ginny. "You are so like Ron --"
"-- and he said hed come to see her off! And then he told me to go away. Hes snogging her!" James added as though worried he had not made himself clear.
"Oh, it would e lovely if they got married!" whispered Lily ecstatically. "Teddy would really e part of the family then!"
"He already comes round for dinner aout four times a week," said Harry "Why dont we just invite him to live with is and have done with it?"
"Yeah!" said James enthusiastically. "I dont mind sharing with Al--Teddy could have my room!"
"No," said Harry firmly, "you and Al will share a room only when I want the house demolished."
He checked the attered old watch that had once een Faian Prewetts.
"Its nearly eleven, youd etter get on oard."
"Dont forget to give Neville our love!" Ginny told James as she hugged him.
"Mum! I cant give a professor love!"
"But you know Neville--"
James rolled his eyes.
"Outside, yeah, ut at school hes Professor Longottom, isnt he? I cant walk into Herology and give him love. . . ."
Shaking his head at his mothers foolishness, he vented his feelings y aiming a kick at Alus.
"See you later, Al. Watch out for the thestrals."
"I thought they were invisile? You said they were invisile!"
ut James merely laughed, permitted his mother to kiss him, gave his father a fleeting hug, then leapt onto the rapidly filling train. They saw him wave, then sprint away up the corridor to find his friends.
"Thestrals are nothing to worry aout," Harry told Alus. "Theyre gentle things, theres nothing scare aout them. Anyway, you wont e going up to school in the carriages, youll e going in the oats."
Ginny kissed Alus good-ye.
"See you at Christmas."
"Bye, Al," said Harry as his son hugged him. "Dont forget Hagrids invited you to tea next Friday. Dont mess with Peeves. Dont duel anyone till youre learned how. And dont let James wind you up."
"What if Im in Slytherin?"
The whisper was for his father alone, and Harry knew that only the moment of departure could have forced Alus to reveal how great and sincere that fear was.
Harry crouched down so that Aluss face was slightly aove his own. Alone of Harrys three children, Alus had inherited Lilys eyes.
"Alus Severus," Harry said quietly, so that noody ut Ginny could hear, and she was tactful enough to pretend to e waving to rose, who was now on the train, "you were named for two headmasters of Hogwarts. One of them was a Slytherin and he was proaly the ravest man I ever knew."
"But just say--"
"--then Slytherin House will have gained an excellent student, wont it? It doesnt matter to us, Al. But if it matter to you, youll e ale to choose Gryffindor over Slytherin. The Sorting Hat takes your choice into account."
"Really?"
"It did for me," said Harry.
He had never told any of his children that efore, and he saw the wonder in Aluss face when he said it. But how the doorsr were slamming all along the scarlet train, and the lurred outlines of parents swarming forward for final kisses, last-minute reminders, Alus jumped into the carriage and ginny closed the door ehind him. Students were hanging from the windows nearest them. A great numer of faces, oth on the train and off, seemed to e turned toward Harry.
"Why are they all staring?" demanded Alus as he and rose craned around to look at the other students.
"Dont let it worry you," said Ron. "Its me, Im extremely famous."
Alus, Rose, Hugo, and Lily laughed. The train egan to more, and Harry walked alongside it, watching his sons thin face, already alaze with excitement. Harry kept smiling and waving, even though it was like a little ereavement, watching his son glide away from him. . . .
The last trace of steam evaporated in the autumn air. The train rounded a corner. Harrys hand was still raised in farewell.
"Hell e alright," murmured Ginny.
As Harry looked dat her, he lowered his hand asentmindedly and touched the lightning scar on his forehead.
"I know he will."
The scar had not pained Harry for nineteen years. All was well.